# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Linux, ###, Canvas, VirtualBox, class, the instructor, 95, Windows, Macs, ## Week
**Document Length**: 2554 words

---

# 95-799 Linux & Open Source - Syllabus

Fall 2024 Mini A1 – August 28 – October 9
Wednesday 6:30pm – 9:20pm in HbH 1202
Instructor: Dennis Moul TAs: Om Mahajan omahajan@andrew.cmu.edu
Phone: (412) 533-2216
E-mail: d-799@hq99.net Office Hours: TBD
### Class web sites:

canvas.cmu.edu
linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu
Description
This course covers the Linux operating system, its related applications, and the Open Source Software (OSS)
model. Emphasis is on how Linux is different from other systems.

Objectives
The focus of the course is two-fold. One component is developing hands-on technical experience with installing,
configuring, and administering Linux systems and Open Source applications. This will be done partly through inclass lectures, but the hands-on lab work will generally be done by the students outside of class time.

The other component of the course is to developing an understanding of how Linux & Open Source fit into
enterprise IT environments, their strengths and weaknesses, and the economic, social, political, and legal forces
acting on them. This will be covered primarily through classroom lectures & Canvas discussions.
### Skills and knowledge students will gain in this course:

### *  Install Red Hat and Debian based Linux distributions;

### *  Maintain operating system updates;

### *  Install and configure useful application software (LAMP stack apps, SAMBA, and others);

### *  Interoperate between Linux and Windows;

### *  Understanding of each of the following:

### *  Basics of Linux security;

### *  Major issues involved in Open Source licensing;

### *  Basics of Linux scripting and be able to write a simple script;

### *  Pros & cons of Linux & be able to decide where it makes sense to use it or not;

*  A sufficient knowledge framework of Linux upon which they can build if desired.

Prerequisites
An x86-based computer with a 64-bit Intel/AMD CPU and hardware virtualization, on which to run the Lab
exercises. M* Apple Silicon based Macs are not compatible. Having a laptop in class is best but not required. A
minimum of 4GB RAM is required, 8GB preferred. You will need at least 30GB of free disk space, SSD is highly
recommended rather than spinning hard drive. If you have a non-Windows computer, that is OK, but you will
need to get access to a Windows machine (physical or virtual) in order to complete the last Lab. A Windows
virtual machine is the simplest option and will be provided, but will require about 40GB of additional free disk
space.

A basic understanding of PC hardware/software architecture/networking (such as BIOS boot order, disk
partitions, IP addresses).

Understanding of computer programming concepts in any language.

Use of LibreOffice Writer and Impress for class documents and presentations, in both your host and guest OS's.

Use of VirtualBox to run Linux virtual machines.

Some familiarity with any version of Unix (Linux, Solaris, AIX, HPUX, etc) is helpful but not required.
# 95-799 Linux Page 1 of 5

Textbook
The Linux Command Line: A Complete Introduction, 5th Internet Edition by William Shotts Jr. Available online in
PDF at linuxcommand.org/tlcl.php (also my local copy).

Schedule
## Week 1: In The Beginning: Introduction, Linux background & history.

Aug 28 Understanding Open Source.
## Week 2: Pieces & Parts: Structure of the operating system. Lab 0 Due. (installs)

Sep 4 Unix survival guide. Bio post Due.
### Will The One True Linux Please Stand Up:

## Week 3: Lab 1 Due. (commands)

Understanding the major Linux distributions.

Sep 11
Repositories and package management systems for adding software.

So What Is It Good For?: Common applications for Linux.
## Week 4: Lab 2 Due. (packages)

Installing and configuring services (web, ftp, file/print, etc).

Sep 18 Quiz 1.

Profits from Freedom: Open Source licensing & business models.
## Week 5: Barbarians at the Gate: using Linux for network security. Lab 3 Due. (apps)

Sep 25 If I Had A Hammer: Unix scripting languages. (VIDEO) Quiz 2.
## Week 6: Lab 4 Due. (security)

Plays Nice With Others: Integrating Linux into other environments.
### Oct 2 License Analysis Due

Feel the Power: Linux in the cloud, system & network management
Lab 5 Due. (integration)
## Week 7: demos, configuration management, Linux on non-PC platforms,

Lab 6 Due. (scripting)
Oct 9 recompiling the kernel.

Quiz 3.
(NO CLASS – asychronous video lecture)
Software
VirtualBox
Each student will use a copy of VirtualBox in order to run multiple versions of Linux non-destructively on their
computer. VirtualBox is a cross-platform “virtual PC” program that emulates a complete separate additional
system within your host computer. The program and documentation can be downloaded from virtualbox.org or
locally at linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu/virtualbox.

You are required to use VirtualBox for this class, both for consistency with the instructor's and other students'
environments, and to experience an Open Source-based virtualization system. The labs are verified and known to
work on VirtualBox 7.0.20 on Windows 10, and should be compatible with Intel-based Macs as well (not M*
Apple Silicon based Macs though).

Virtualbox will coexist with most other virtualization software you may have installed though you should not
run VMs in both at the same time. There is a compatibility issue with Windows 10 Hyper-V and several Windows
features like Credential Guard, Device Guard, Memory Integrity, etc. See the post in the Technical Forum for
details.

The versions of Linux used in the class are distributed as .ISO files for using as a VirtualBox virtual optical disk,
and can be downloaded from linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu/iso-images/. You should use those exact versions so you
are in sync with the lectures, labs, and the other students.
# 95-799 Linux Page 2 of 5

LibreOffice
We use the free & open source LibreOffice office suite for all class documents – syllabus, lab assignments, lecture
slides, and so forth. Windows and Mac installers for LibreOffice are available at
linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu/libreoffice or libreoffice.org. There is another older variant called OpenOffice – if you
have that installed you can use it instead.
### Assignments:

Biographical Post: The first assignment is to make a video post to the Canvas bio discussion folder with the
following information:
### *  Your name, how to pronounce it if not obvious to native English speakers, and any shortened or alternate

name that you prefer.
*  Where you are from, and where you are located now.
*  A brief description of your school/work history.
### *  A quick summary of your level of technical knowledge/experience with PC hardware & software,

networks, the Internet, Unix in general, and Linux.
*  Any topics of particular interest that you would like to see covered in this class.
*  Anything else you’d like the instructor and other students to know about you.

You do not need to reveal any information that you are uncomfortable sharing with the other students. The video
should be at most a few minutes in length. Value: 1 point.

Open Source License Analysis: There are dozens of different Open Source software licenses, each with their own
legal terms and conditions. You will analyze and review a license of your choice (other than GPL, LGPL, BSD, &
MIT) and submit it via the class Canvas site. A standardized review template will be provided. See the initial
License Analysis forum post for details. 10 points (9+1). (est time 3 hours)
Labs: The bulk of the assignments are the hands-on labs. The instructor will discuss the main steps of the lab
during class, but students are not expected to begin or complete the labs in class. Students will work on the labs in
their own time until they achieve the intended result. Each lab will have some final step (screenshot, writeup, etc)
demonstrating successful completion, submitted to Canvas via each lab’s page.
95 points (6@15pts each (three labs are 14+1), 1 at 5 pts; est time 1-5 hours each).

Quizzes: There are three brief quizzes conducted via Canvas. Two will be in class, and one will be remote due to
the instructor’s travel schedule. These will address technical architecture topics, the non-technical
economic/social/political/legal topics, and lab experiences. They will not cover details of individual installation or
configuration steps. Quizzes are closed book – no notes, books, online resources, etc are permitted. Use of
Respondus Lockdown Browser is required for in-class quizzes.

The one remote quiz will be graded on a completion basis – if you attempt each question you will get full points
for the quiz, independent of the correctness of your answers. With this approach you can take the quiz to assess
your knowledge without feeling the need to go look up the right answers. When you submit you will see the
numeric grade out of 13 points that you would have earned for an on-campus, in-class, closed-book quiz. But it
will not be included in the grade calculation, rather I will separately assign 3 points for completion of that quiz.
29 points (2@13 pts each, 1 at 3 pts, est 10 minutes each).

Participation: There is a participation grade split between activity in the classroom discussions and postings in
the class online discussion forums. You are expected to post your own problems and also assist other students
with their technical problems. Non-technical (social/political/economic/legal) posts are encouraged also.

Minimum expected activity for the discussion groups, to receive an average grade for that portion, is one
meaningful post per week per student. See the entry “Discussion posting guidelines” in the Course Information
module of Canvas for required reading on what constitutes a meaningful post. 10 points. Class attendance is not
counted toward participation.
# 95-799 Linux Page 3 of 5

Grading
Total points: 147, made up of all the assignments listed above including participation, 1-point syllabus
acknowledgment quiz, and the Lockdown Browser check. According to Heinz School grading guidelines, the
course grade average will be targeted at 3.5. The grading scale will be curved as needed to reach this average, so it
may vary from the typical 90+%:A 80+%:B scale.

What “14+1” means: Assignment submissions that adequately meet the assignment requirements receive 14 out
of 15 points for that assignment (or 9 out of 10 on the license analysis). Sometimes there is a wide disparity
between those that simply satisfy the requirements and a few submissions that are of much higher quality - much
more thorough and thoughtful analysis, much greater care and polish.

These submissions are noticeably better than the "adequate" ones, and it seems appropriate to have some small
way to recognize that extra effort. That's what the 1 extra possible point is for. It is not “extra credit”, it is part of
the base 15 points of the assignment. Typically between zero and three student submissions fall into this category
for a given assignment, and are awarded an extra amount between ¼ and 1 point. This aspect of the grading is
necessarily somewhat subjective.

Course Material Hosting
The course Canvas site is the main site for course-related materials. The slides used for the lectures are posted
here before the start of class. Assignment documents are on Canvas as well, and submissions are done through
Canvas’s Assignment feature.

Supplemental large files and other miscellany are hosted on a separate site maintained by the instructor –
linuxclass.heinz.cmu.edu. The Linux OS ISO images are here, along with the VirtualBox software. The first
week’s lecture/lab files are also available here for students who may not have access to Canvas yet due to
waitlisting.

Teaching Assistant(s)
TL:DR; - don’t just email the instructor when you have a problem.

TA(s) for the course have three roles – help students with technical or conceptual problems with their Linux
virtual machines & related software; monitor the online discussions (along with the instructor) to respond where
useful; and assist the instructor with some grading.

Also see Course Information→Technical Support Process for more information about the role of the TA(s) in
helping you with technical issues.

Course Policies
Generative AI
To best support your own learning, you must complete all graded assignments in this course yourself, without any
use of generative AI - do not use AI tools to generate any content for an assignment. Passing off any AI generated
content as your own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content)
constitutes a violation of CMU’s academic integrity policy.

You are welcome to use AI tools to create study guides, try to solve technical problems with your lab exercises,
get general information, and so forth, so long as neither directly copied nor paraphrased content from the AI tool
is included in your assignment.
# 95-799 Linux Page 4 of 5

### Collaboration and Original Work

Students are welcome to collaborate and share information on lab assignments. Each student must complete and
submit each lab themselves, but you may discuss any aspects of the labs (problems, steps, useful tricks, etc) with
others.

The license analysis, lab assignment text, and online discussion post text must be in your own words. Any direct
quotation from another source must be clearly attributed to the source, and the use of direct quotations should be
kept to a minimum. Mark any copied text with quotation marks ( “ ” ). Plagiarism will not be tolerated.

The quizzes conducted online via Canvas are closed book – no notes, books, online resources, etc are permitted. If
you notice fellow students cheating, inform the instructor (anonymously if necessary) – they are cheating *you*
out of a fair grade due to the grading curve.

Original Work policies will be strictly enforced, and any students found cheating or plagiarizing will fail at least
the assignment and possibly the whole course, and additional disciplinary actions may apply up to and including
expulsion from the university. Think about explaining that to your family and to your funding agency. It's not
worth it - just don't do it.

Recording
Lectures are recorded and made available to students for their academic use. Recordings may be shared with other
current students of this class only. Recordings are not allowed to be further copied, distributed, published, posted,
or otherwise used for any other purpose without the express written consent of the instructor.

A Canvas Announcement will be posted when each week’s lecture recording becomes available.

Missed assignments
Many students at Carnegie Mellon are extremely busy and overcommitted, so requests for due date extension due
to other workloads and activities will not be granted. You will need to plan your efforts accordingly and start
early enough that you have time to handle any problems that occur while working on the Labs, which are by
nature somewhat unpredictable. TA(s) are available to assist you with Lab problems – make use of them, but don't
wait until the last minute. Late assignments will have a 10% penalty per week assessed.
### Attendance & Classroom Activity

Classroom attendance in person is expected each week but is not counted towards participation.

Do not talk amongst yourselves during class as this is disruptive to neighboring students and the instructor. If you
need to leave part way through class, please sit near the edge so you won't disturb others as you leave.

The university currently considers the use of facial coverings while on campus to be optional. The instructor
intends to teach without a mask to assist those students for whom being able to see lips move during speech
improves comprehension. Masking and distancing policies may change, the class will follow current university
guidance.
# 95-799 Linux Page 5 of 5