# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Class, ###, students, class, Canvas, No.2, the course, Econometrics, practice, Damodar N. Basic Econometrics
**Document Length**: 3312 words

---

# Carnegie Mellon University
Heinz College
# 90-822 / 90-440 Critical Analysis of Policy Research

Course Syllabus, Fall 2024
# INSTRUCTOR

Brian Kovak
Office: 2208 Hamburg Hall
Office Hours: by appointment – email to set up a time
E-Mail: bkovak@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Phone: 412-268-5223
# LECTURE

2:00-3:20 Tuesdays and Thursdays
Hamburg Hall 1005
Course website: canvas.cmu.edu
# TEACHING ASSISTANT

Zhihan Li
E-Mail: zhihanl3@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours: by appointment
# OBJECTIVES

This course prepares students to understand, interpret, and critique existing policy research. The
course focuses on the development of three essential skills for policy analysts: 1) Read and
interpret empirical results in published research. 2) Understand the assumptions needed to infer
causal relationships and assess their plausibility. 3) Recognize common problems in policy
research, including reverse causality, omitted variables, measurement error, etc., and use
graphical methods to determine the direction of the resulting statistical bias. Using these three
skills, students will practice understanding and critiquing policy research. Moreover, by
identifying and understanding potential problems, students can make valid conclusions even
from seriously flawed research. At the end of the class, students demonstrate these skills by
independently evaluating an existing piece of research of their choice, presenting their findings
in a written report and in-class presentation.
# PREREQUISITE

Any course covering the estimation and interpretation of linear regression.
# COURSE ORGANIZATION

Web site: This course will use the Canvas system (https://canvas.cmu.edu/). As of the first day
of class, all registered students should have complete access to the course web site. Important
class information, including readings and copies of the lecture notes will be distributed regularly
via this web site.

Reading materials: All readings listed below will be available through Canvas. Required
readings should be completed before the associated lecture, and students must be prepared to
discuss the readings during lecture. Supplemental readings provide more in-depth information
for the interested student.

Assignments: Students will complete six assignments during the course, with due dates listed
below. Assignments are due at the beginning of the relevant lecture and will be submitted via
the Gradescope link on Canvas. Late assignments will be deducted 20 percentage points per day,
beginning just after the start of class. Each assignment is worth 10% of the course grade, so the
six assignments together comprise 60% of the overall course grade. Grading issues occasionally
arise, and regrade request must be emailed to the TA within one week of the grades being posted.

Final Project: As mentioned above, the course will culminate in a final project evaluating
research on a policy topic of the student’s choice. Further information on this project will be
provided in lecture 6. The final project is worth 35% of the overall class grade.

Class participation: Class discussions and responses to in-class practice questions are integral
parts of the course, and class participation will account for 5% of the total grade. To receive full
credit for this portion of the grade, students must consistently demonstrate through participation
in class discussions and practice questions that they have completed the required readings and
thought through the related issues in advance of the class.
### Grading Summary:

Assignments 60%
Final Project 35%
Participation 5%
# POLICIES

Lecture will be conducted in person and students are expected to attend. If you have an
approved need to attend remotely via Zoom, email the instructor for a link. If you expect to
utilize this option, please make sure that your Internet connection and equipment are set up to
use Zoom and able to share audio and video during class meetings. See this page from
### Computing Resources for information on the technology you are likely to need:

https://www.cmu.edu/computing/start/students.html
Although I will not take formal attendance, I expect that you will attend and will be engaged in
the course material while in class. The information presented in lecture will help you to succeed
in the homeworks and final project, and I will strive to make everything we cover interesting and
relevant to the course’s learning objectives.

Lecture notes will be posted on Canvas prior to the relevant lecture. All course materials are
provided solely for educational use by students enrolled in the course and may not be distributed
to any other person or posted on the internet without the express written permission of the course
instructor.

We have a lot of material to cover in a short amount of time, and I plan to start and end class on
time. If you must miss class, review the lecture notes and readings and consult one of your
classmates to get whatever material you missed.

Assignments must be completed and submitted individually; students are welcome to discuss
assignments with others, but each student’s answer must be in their own words and reflect their
own independent understanding. For written assignments, all sources must be appropriately
cited based on standard citation guidelines and CMU policies. Students are responsible for
knowing how to cite sources appropriately. For official CMU definitions of cheating and
plagiarism, and academic disciplinary procedures that will be followed in the case of a violation,
see: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html Plagiarism is a serious offense that can result in the student failing the course.

Note that all suspected academic integrity violations will be reported to the Associate Dean.

Additional penalties may be imposed. See me if you have any questions about appropriate
citation before handing in an assignment.

In this class, any use of generative AI for any graded course assignment is prohibited. Passing
off any generated content as your own (for example, cutting and pasting content into written
assignments or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes an academic integrity violation. As we will
see throughout the course, much published research is not particularly credible. Generative AI
algorithms trained on such research will not yield credible responses, so it is essential for you to
independently assess the quality of the research work you encounter, without seeking assistance
from AI tools. If you have questions about using generative AI in this course, please talk to me
first before doing so.

If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage
you to use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and discuss your needs with
me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are
provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from
accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage
you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

It is my intent that students from diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this
course, that students’ learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity
that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength, and benefit. It is my intent to
present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age,
socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. Your suggestions are encouraged and
appreciated. Please let me know ways to improve the effectiveness of the course for you
personally or for other students or student groups. In addition, if any of our class meetings
conflict with your religious events, please let me know so that we can make arrangements for
you.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep, and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress. If you or anyone you know experiences
any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly
encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help:
call 412-268-2922 and visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend,
faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police
On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
The best way to get in touch with me is to send me an email. I will be checking email regularly
and will strive to respond within one day. I expect that you will also check your CMU email
account at least one per day, as all announcements will be made through the Canvas system,
which automatically emails your CMU account.

While the policies described above are designed to provide an excellent educational experience,
we may need to make adjustments as the semester continues. Any changes will be
communicated in class and through Canvas announcements. If you face any challenges or if you
have suggestions for how we can improve upon the course delivery, please let me know.
# TENTATIVE SCHEDULE

The following represents a tentative schedule that is subject to change. Any changes will be
announced in class and through the Canvas system. You are expected to check your CMU
email daily to stay up to date on all course-related information.

Slides Date Topics
1 Aug 27 Course introduction and syllabus
Interpreting Empirical Research
2 Aug 29 Data, bivariate linear regression basics, interpreting regression output
3 Sep 3 Shares, percent, and percentage points; logs; binary independent and
dependent variables
4 Sep 5 Multivariate regression, nonlinear effects, interaction terms, bad controls
5 Sep 10 Difference-in-differences and fixed effects
6 Sep 12 Final project introduction
Causality
7 Sep 17 Correlation vs. causation, potential outcomes, randomized experiments,
fundamentally unidentified questions
### Regression Interpretation Assignment Due

8 Sep 19 Counterfactuals and popular research designs
9 Sep 24 Causal inference in-class exercise
### Final Project Proposal Due

### Threats to Causal Interpretation

10 Sep 26 Omitted variables, reverse causality
11 Oct 1 Measurement error, missing data
12 Oct 3 Instrumental variables
— Oct 8 Catch-up period
Omitted Variables, Reverse Causality, and Measurement Error Assignment Due
Modern Research Designs
13 Oct 10 Difference-in-differences and fixed effects with panel data
### Instrumental Variables Assignment Due

Presentation Slots Assigned
— Oct 15 No class – fall break
— Oct 17 No class – fall break
14 Oct 22 Selection on observables
15 Oct 24 Regression discontinuity and regression kink
16 Oct 29 Synthetic controls
### Critique Practice and Final Project

17 Oct 31 Critique application and practice part 1 (OVB/RC)
### Critique Practice 1 Due

— Nov 5 No class – democracy day
18 Nov 7 Critique application and practice part 2 (IV)
### Critique Practice 2 Due

— Nov 12 Presentation help session
19 Nov 14 Critique application and practice part 3 (DiD)
### Critique Practice 3 Due

— Nov 19 Final presentations
— Nov 21 Final presentations
— Nov 26 Final presentations
— Nov 28 No class – Thanksgiving
— Dec 3 Final presentations
— Dec 5 Final presentations
Final paper due 10 days following your presentation date
# TENTATIVE READINGS BY TOPIC

(subject to change no less than one week prior to the associated lecture)
Class 1: Course introduction and syllabus
Required Reading
This syllabus
Class 2: Data, bivariate linear regression basics, interpreting regression output
Required Reading
Stock, James H. and Mark W. Watson. Introduction to Econometrics – Third Edition.
## Chapter 4 p111-135. 2011. [25p]

Class 3: Shares, percents, and percentage points; logs; binary independent variables; binary
dependent variables
Required Reading
Handout “Interpreting statements with `percent’ vs. ‘percentage point’” [2p]
### Cadena, Brian C. and Brian K. Kovak “Immigrants Equilibrate Local Labor Markets:

Evidence from the Great Recession” NBER Working Paper No. 19272. 2013,
Sections 1 and 3. [17p] [Focus on the motivation behind and interpretation of the
main empirical analysis in Table 3.]
Supplemental Reading
Gujarati, Damodar N. Basic Econometrics. Chapter 6. p.164-193 2004. [30p]
Regression interpretation with logged variables and other transformations.

Gujarati, Damodar N. Basic Econometrics. Chapter 9. p.297-323 2004. [27p]
[Binary independent variables].

Gujarati, Damodar N. Basic Econometrics. Chapter 15. p.580-625 2004. [46p]
[Binary dependent variables].

Class 4: Multivariate regression, nonlinear effects, interaction terms, bad controls
Required Reading
Stock, James H. and Mark W. Watson. 2011. Introduction to Econometrics – Third
Edition. Chapter 6 p186-210. 2011. [25p]
Clark, Ximena, Timothy J. Hatton, and Jeffrey G. Williamson “Explaining U.S.

Immigration, 1971-1998” Review of Economics and Statistics. 89(2) p359-373.

2007. [15p] [Focus on interpreting the main empirical analysis in Table 3.]
Supplemental Reading
Wooldridge, Jeffrey M. Introductory Economics: A Modern Approach – Fourth Edition.
## Section 7.4 “Interactions Involving Dummy Variables” p.240-245 [5p]

Class 5: Difference-in-differences and fixed effects
Card, David and Alan B. Krueger “Minimum Wages and Employment: A Case Study of
the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania” American Economic
Review. 1994. Read through section III. p.772-786 [15p] [Focus on the motivation
behind and interpretation of the empirical analysis in Table 3]
Kovak, Brian K. “Regional Effects of Trade Reform: What is the Correct Measure of
Liberalization?” American Economic Review. 2013. p.1960-1975 [16p] [Focus on
the motivation behind and interpretation of the empirical analysis in Table 1]
Class 6: Final project introduction, how to read empirical research
Required Reading
Final Project Description.pdf [5p]
Sample Final Project Proposal.pdf [1p]
Sample Final Paper.pdf [7p]
Presentation Grade Sheet.pdf [1p]
Class 7: Correlation vs. causation, potential outcomes, randomized experiments,
fundamentally unidentified questions
Required Reading
Angrist, Joshua D. and Jörn-Steffen Pischke. Mostly Harmless Econometrics – an
Empiricist’s Companion. Chapters 1-2. p.3-18. 2009. [16p]
Supplemental Reading
Holland, Paul W. “Statistics and Causal Inference.” Journal of the American Statistical
Assocaition. vol.81, no..396 p.945-960. 1986. [16p]
[Deep investigation of the potential outcomes framework. Focus on Sections 1-4].

Class 8: Counterfactuals and popular research designs
Required Reading
Counterfactual Worksheet.pdf. [4p]
Manski, Charles F. Public Policy in an Uncertain World. Chapter 2 p.47-84. 2013. [38 p]
[Focus on the portion on p.47-67 on approaches to structuring policy analyses].

Class 9: Causal inference exercise in class
Required Reading
analytical_exercise.pdf. [2.5p]
Class 10: Omitted variables, reverse causality
Required Reading
Massey, Douglas S. “Do Undocumented Migrants Earn Lower Wages than Legal
Immigrants? New Evidence from Mexico.” International Migration Review. Vol.
21 No. 2 1987. p.236-245, 251-263 (skip section “controlling for selectivity”)
[23p including tables] [Focus on the motivation behind and interpretation of the
empirical analysis in Table 2]
Cadena and Kovak (2013) Section 3, p.10-18 (see Class 2) [9p]
Supplemental Reading
Stock and Watson (2011) Chapter 6 (see Class 3) for omitted variables.

Class 11: Measurement error, missing data
Required Reading
Ashenfelter, Orley and Alan Krueger (1994) “Estimates of the Economic Return to
Schooling from a New Sample of Twins” American Economic Review, Vol. 84, No.
5, pp. 1157-1173 (sections I and II) [12p] [Focus on the concerns about
measurement error and intuition behind the ways they address it]
Black, Dan, Seth Sanders, and Lowell Taylor (2003) “Measurement of Higher Education
in the Census and Current Population Survey,” Journal of the American Statistical
Association, Vol. 98, No. 463, pp. 545-554 [10p] [The entire paper should be
relatively accessible]
Supplemental Reading
Gujarati, Damodar N. Basic Econometrics. Section 13.5 “Errors of Measurement.” p.524528 2004. (Measurement error) [5p]
Class 12: Instrumental variables
Required Reading
[For the following three papers, focus on the endogeneity concerns motivating the use of
instrumental variables and the instruments used to resolve those concerns]
Beaudry, Paul and Ethan Lewis (2014) “Do Male-Female Wage Differentials Reflect
Differences in the Return to Skill? Cross-City Evidence from 1980-2000”
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics. Vol.6, No.2, pp.178-194.

Olney, William W. (2013) “Immigration and Firm Expansion” Journal of Regional
Science. Vol.53, No.1, pp.142-157.

Qian, Nancy (2008) “Missing Women and the Price of Tea in China: The Effect of SexSpecific Earnings on Sex Imbalance” Quarterly Journal of Economics. Vol.123,
No.3, pp.1251-1285.

Supplemental Reading
Wooldridge, Jeffrey M. (2009) Introductory Economics: A Modern Approach. United
States: Cengage Learning., Chapter 15 pp.506-536. [30p]
Class 13: Differences-in-differences and fixed effects with panel data
Required Reading
Abay, Kibrom A., Mulubrhan Amare, Luca Tiberti, and Kwaw S. Andam (2021) “COVID19-Induced Disruptions of School Feeding Services Exacerbate Food Insecurity in
Nigeria” Journal of Nutrition. Vol.151, No.8, pp.2245-2254. [Read the
## Introduction, Statistical analysis, and Results sections, and skim the Methods

section to get a sense for context and variable measurement.]
Johnson, David S., Jonathan A. Parker, and Nicholas S. Souleles (2006) “Household
Expenditure and the Income Tax Rebates of 2001” American Economic Review.

Vol.96, No.5, pp.1589-1610. [Read introduction and Sections II, IV (focus on the
empirical specification, not PIH details), and V.]
Bailey, Martha J. and Goodman-Bacon, Andrew (2015) “The War on Poverty’s
Experiment in Public Medicine: Community Health Centers and the Mortality of
Older Americans” American Economic Review. Vol.105, No.3, pp.1067-1104.
[Focus on understanding the setting, the research design captured in equation (1),
and the baseline results in Figure 5. No need to read past p.1085.]
Class 14: Selection on observables
Required Reading
Ahmed, Sayem et al. (2018) “The impact of community-based health insurance on the
utilization of medically trained healthcare providers among informal workers in
Bangladesh” PLOS ONE. Vol.13, No.7, pp.1-16. [A straightforward paper. Focus
on the self-selection concerns and use of matching to address them.]
Deryugina, Tatyana, Alexander MacKay, and Julian Reif (2020) “The Long-Run
Dynamics of Electricity Demand: Evidence from Municipal Aggregation”
American Economic Journal: Applied Economics Vol.12, No.1, pp.86-64. [Focus
on the Introduction, Section III.D “Advantages of Matching Estimators with
Electricity Data,” and IV.A “Main Results.”]
Supplemental Reading
Imbens, Guido W. (2015) “Matching Methods in Practice: Three Examples” Journal of
Human Resources. Vol.50, No.2, pp.373-419. [Very technical at times. Focus on
## Section VI “Three Applications” for examples of matching in practice.]

Class 15: Regression discontinuity and regression kink
Required Reading
DiNardo, John and David S. Lee (2004) “Economic Impacts of New Unionization on
Private Sector Employers: 1984-2001” Quarterly Journal of Economics. Vol.119,
No.4, pp. 1383–1441. [Read pages 1383-1422 and focus on the ideas behind the
research design rather than the detailed technical notation.]
Supplemental Reading
Matsudaira, Jordan D. (2008) “Mandatory summer school and student achievement”
Journal of Econometrics. Vol.142, pp.829-850.

Gray, Collin, Adam Leive, Elena Prager, Kelsey Pukelis, and Mary Zaki (2019) “Employed
in a SNAP? The Impact of Work Requirements on Program Participation and Labor
### Supply” Working Paper (Later published in American Economic Journal:

Economic Policy)
Card, David, David S. Lee, Zhuan Pei, and Andrew Weber (2016) “Regression Kink
Design: Theory and Practice” NBER Working Paper No. 22781. (Later published
in Advances in Econometrics) [Focused on implementation details for practitioners
seeking to use RKD]
Class 16 Synthetic controls
Required Reading
Bohn, Sarah, Magnus Lofstrom, and Stephen Raphael (2014) “Did the 2007 Legal Arizona
Workers Act reduce the State’s Unauthorized Immigrant Population?” Review of
Economics and Statistics. Vol.96, No.2, pp. 258–269. [Read sections I-V, focusing
on the logic behind the method]
Hogan, Thomas P. (2022) “De-prosecution and death: A synthetic control analysis of the
impact of de-prosecution on homicides” Criminology & Public Policy. Vol.21,
pp.489-534. [Read through Section 3]
Supplemental Reading
Card, David (1990) “The Impact of the Mariel Boatlift on the Miami Labor Market”
Industrial and Labor Relations Review Vol.43, No.2, pp.245-257. [Example of
informal synthetic controls prior to development of contemporary algorithm.]
Abadie, Alberto (2021) “Using Synthetic Controls: Feasibility, Data Requirements, and
Methodological Aspects,” Journal of Economic Literature Vol.59, No.2, pp.391425. [Quite technical review of synthetic controls approach.]
Class 17: Critique application and practice part 1
Required Reading
Pinho-Gomes, Ana-Catarina, Sanne A. E. Peters, and Mark Woodward (2023)
“Gender equality related to gender differences in life expectancy across the
globe gender equality and life expectancy” PLOS Global Public Health.

Vol.3, No.3.

Class 18: Critique application and practice part 2
Required Reading
Sharkey, Patrick, Gerard Torrats-Espinosa, and Delaram Takyar (2017) “Community and
the Crime Decline: The Causal Effect of Local Nonprofits on Violent Crime,”
American Sociological Review. Vol.82, No.6, pp.1214-1240.

Class 19: Critique application and practice part 3
Required Reading
Kim, Taekyun, Yejin Park, and Wonjoon Kim, "The Impact of Artificial Intelligence on
Firm Performance," (2022) Portland International Conference on Management of
Engineering and Technology (PICMET), Portland, OR, USA, 2022, pp. 1-10.
11