# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: students, Brian K. Kovak, Snyder, Chapters, Nicholson, the course, Varian, All rights, this course, ###
**Document Length**: 1959 words

---

# Carnegie Mellon University
Heinz College
# 90-908 Ph.D. Microeconomics I

Course Syllabus, Fall 2024
# INSTRUCTOR

Brian Kovak
Office Hours: on zoom by appointment
E-Mail: bkovak@cmu.edu
Office Phone: 412-268-5223
# LECTURE

9:30-10:50am Tuesday and Thursday Aug 27 - Dec 5
Hamburg Hall 1004
Course website: www.cmu.edu/canvas
# TEACHING ASSISTANT

Shahriar Noroozizadeh
## Discussion Section: Fridays 9:30-10:50am

Hamburg Hall 1004
Office Hours: on zoom by appointment
E-Mail: snoroozi@andrew.cmu.edu
# HOMEWORK GRADER

Zhihan Li
E-Mail: zhihanl3@andrew.cmu.edu
COURSE ORGANIZATION1
There will be three exams, October 1, November 14, and during the university final exam period,
December 9-13. The final exam time is set by the University and will be announced during the fall
semester. Students who have valid scheduling conflicts for the first two exams must make
arrangements at least two weeks in advance, and students should not make plans during the final exam
period before learning the third exam schedule.

Ten graded problem sets will be given throughout the semester. Problem sets are due at the start of
lecture on the due date and will be uploaded to the course grading system via Gradescope. The lowest
problem set score will be automatically dropped from your grade. This policy will cover any conflicts,
illnesses, or other issues requiring you to miss a problem set. Late problem sets will be deducted 10
1 Thanks are due to Lowell Taylor for originally providing much of the material for this course
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.

percentage points per day late, beginning at the start of lecture. You must notify the professor and
homework grader if you plan to submit a problem set after the due date, and late submission may not
be available when exam dates are near.

The final score is a weighted average of scores received on the exams and problem sets, with weights
0.25 for all problem sets combined (equally weighted), and 0.25 for each of the three exams.

Keep me informed of any issues that are likely to affect your course performance so we can address the
issues before they become intractable. This includes scheduling conflicts, religious holidays, serious
illness (without requiring disclosure of personal medical information), etc.

The teaching assistant will hold weekly discussion sections on Friday mornings, covering course
material, homework questions, and general review. I expect that you will attend this session prepared
with relevant questions about lecture material and homework.
# TEXTBOOKS

The following two textbooks are required for the course. In order to give students time to obtain these
books, the required readings for the first few weeks of class are available on the Canvas website.

Alternate editions may be used if preferred; the relevant homework problems are posted on Canvas to
avoid any confusion resulting from changes across editions.

W. Nicholson and C. Snyder, Microeconomic Theory: Basic Principles and Extensions, 10th ed.
(Mason, OH: Thomson, 2008).

H. Varian, Microeconomic Analysis, 3rd ed. (New York: Norton, 1992).
# COURSE CONTENT

Microeconomics is the study of the ways in which individuals and firms make choices, and how these
choices interact. Economics shares with other behavioral sciences the general goal of explaining and
predicting human behavior. The distinguishing feature of the economic approach is an emphasis on
rational decision-making under conditions of scarcity. Because of the central role of markets, i.e., the
price system, in describing the outcomes of individual and firm decision-making, microeconomics is
sometimes called price theory.

Ph.D. Microeconomics I provides a semester-long introduction to microeconomic theory and its
application. The primary objective of the course is to familiarize students with the microeconomic
paradigm and develop an appreciation of the usefulness (and limitations) of microeconomic analysis.

A further goal of the course is to develop and exercise students’ ability to use economic analysis in
examining applied issues, and, more generally, to help students acquire formal modeling skills—the
ability to reduce real-world problems to useful and mathematically tractable representations.

This course is designed for the following students: (i) Ph.D. students who want to increase their
exposure to microeconomics, but do not expect to use formal microeconomics in their research (i.e.,
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.

students for whom this course is likely to be their last course in microeconomics); (ii) Ph.D. students
who plan to study microeconomics beyond the introductory level of this course, but do not have the
background for the Ph.D. economic theory sequence offered at the Tepper School; and (iii) masters
level students (or perhaps the occasional undergraduate) with an especially high level of interest and a
good background in mathematics. Note that this course is not a close substitute for the first course in
the Tepper microeconomics sequence (Ph.D. Microeconomics I). Some students may find this course
to be a useful supplementary course to Tepper’s Ph.D. Microeconomics sequence. Students who have
sufficient preparation are encouraged to investigate the Ph.D. Microeconomics sequence offered at
Tepper.

There are no formal prerequisites for this course. However, students are assumed to have a solid
working knowledge of multivariate calculus. You will take brief math quiz in the first lecture to help
you determine whether your math training is sufficient for the course. Prior exposure to
microeconomics in a good undergraduate-level course is helpful but not required.
# COURSE STRUCTURE AND POLICIES

Lecture will be conducted in-person, as scheduled by the registrar. As needed, we may include the
option of streaming lecture from home or posting recorded lectures for the relevant material. Please
note that you are not permitted to share these recordings. This is to protect your FERPA rights and
those of your fellow students. More broadly, recordings of course sessions and all other course
materials are provided solely for educational use by students enrolled in the course and may not be
distributed to any other person or posted on the internet without the express written permission of the
course instructor.

Although I will not take formal attendance, I expect that you will attend and will be engaged in the
course material while in class. The information presented in lecture will help you to succeed in the
homework and exams, and I will strive to make everything we cover interesting and relevant to your
research goals. If you miss lecture, I expect you to get lecture notes from a classmate:
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________
I will be teaching from the whiteboard during lecture, and my lecture notes will be posted on the CMU
Canvas website (www.cmu.edu/canvas). I do this as a service to students and will strive to have notes
posted before the relevant lecture but cannot guarantee this in all cases. Since many economic models
admit very helpful graphical representations, I encourage you to take notes on paper or tablets and
draw the diagrams along with me. The posted notes have spaces for you to draw your own diagrams.

With this in mind, I discourage the use of laptop computers during class.

While students are welcome and encouraged to study together in groups, all work submitted in this
class must be your own. For problem sets, you may discuss problems with classmates, but you must
submit your own solutions to the problems reflecting your individual understanding. Exams will be
completed individually, without any interaction with others. You may use a calculator during exams.
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.

In this class, any use of generative AI for any graded course assignment is prohibited. Passing off any
generated content as your own (for example, cutting and pasting content into written assignments or
paraphrasing AI content) constitutes an academic integrity violation.

Any student found to be in violation of these policies will incur academic disciplinary actions
consistent with University policies. For official CMU definitions of cheating and plagiarism, and
academic disciplinary procedures that will be followed in the case of a violation, see:
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html
If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to
use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and discuss your needs with me as early
in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but
are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them
at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

It is my intent that students from diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course,
that students’ learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students
bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength, and benefit. It is my intent to present materials and
activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status,
ethnicity, race, and culture. Your suggestions are encouraged and appreciated. Please let me know
ways to improve the effectiveness of the course for you personally or for other students or student
groups. In addition, if any of our class meetings conflict with your religious events, please let me know
so that we can make arrangements for you.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will
help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/.

Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the
support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone immediately,
day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police
On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
The best way to get in touch with me is to send me an email. I will be checking email regularly and
will strive to respond within one day. I expect that you will also check your CMU email account at
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.

least one per day, as all announcements will be made through the Canvas system, which automatically
emails your CMU account.
# TENTATIVE OUTLINE

August 27: Introduction
### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 1 – 2

### Aug 29 – September 10: Theory of the Consumer

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 3 – 5

### Varian, Chapters 7 – 8

### September 12 – 17: Individual and Market Demand

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 5 – 6

### Varian, Chapters 9 – 10

### September 19 – 24: Uncertainty

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapter 7

Varian, Chapter 11
### September 26 Exam 1 Review

### October 1: Exam 1

### October 3 – 10, 22: Theory of the Firm

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 9 – 11

### Varian, Chapters 1 – 5

October 15-17 Mid-semester break
### October 24 – 29: Competitive Markets

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 12 – 13

Varian, Chapter 13
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.

### October 31, November 7: Monopoly

### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapter 14

Varian, Chapter 14
### November 5 Democracy day

### November 14: Exam 2

November 12, 19, 21: Game Theory, with Application to Oligopoly
### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapters 8, 15

### Varian, Chapters 15 – 16

November 28: Thanksgiving break
November 28 – December 5: Other Topics: Intertemporal Choice, Externalities, and Public Goods
### Nicholson and Snyder, Chapter 19

Varian, Chapters 19, 23-24
Finals Week (December 9 – 13): Exam 3 (date and time set by University)
© 2024 Brian K. Kovak. All rights reserved.