# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: SQL, class, ###, TOAD, Oracle Data Modeler, Homework, Group Project, SQL Developer, this module, Oracle
**Document Length**: 2242 words

---

### Advanced Relational Database Management

### MISM Course S24-95736 A3

Spring 2024
Carnegie Mellon University
Instructor: Randy Trzeciak TA: Runsheng (Dragon) Xu
Office: HBH 1104C Office hours: Check the Canvas Site
Office hours: By Appointment E-mail: runshenx@andrew.cmu.edu
Phone: 412-268-7040
E-mail: randallt@andrew.cmu.edu
Building / Room: Hamburg Hall (HBH) 1002 (In-Person Expectation)
Time: 6:30 – 9:20 EST, Thursday
Web site: http://www.cmu.edu/canvas/
Textbooks
 Thomas Connolly, Carolyn Begg. Database Systems: A Practical Approach to Design, Implementation and
Management. 6th Edition. Addison-Wesley, Harlow, England. 2015. ISBN: 978-0-294326-0 (CB)
(REQUIRED)
 Joan Casteel. Oracle 11g: PL/SQL Programming. Course Technology, Boston, MA. 2013. ISBN: 978-1-13394736-3 (JC) (OPTIONAL)
https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/oracle-database-11g/9780071494458/?ar
When prompted to “Select your institution”, select “Not Listed? Click here.". Enter your CMU Andrew email address and
password, when prompted for your “Academic email”.
### Prerequisite and Requirements:

Prerequisite: Database Management, 95-703, 90-746; <or> Intermediate Database Management, 95-813
Requirement: Students MUST have a laptop with Oracle Database Express 11G, Oracle Client 11G, and Oracle
Data Modeler installed on it.

Course Description
This course will have a technology component and an advanced topics component. Within the technology
component, the student will learn and use several products: Oracle Data Modeler for database modeling,
PL/SQL for creating program units that use SQL, and Oracle Enterprise Manager and/or Tool for Oracle
Application Developers (TOAD) for managing and Oracle RDBMS and program units.

Within the advanced topics component, we will use some of our class sessions to review and discuss readings in
topics like RDBMS –vs- NoSQL databases, database security, distributed databases, object-oriented databases,
data mining and warehousing, grid computing, introduction to New SQL databases, OLTP, and database uses
for the web.

Learning Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Demonstrate competency using Structured Query In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
Language (SQL) to design, develop, deploy, secure, and
administer a relational database management system that
meets the business needs of a user community.

Demonstrate competency using Procedure Language (PL) In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
/ SQL to enforce complete business rule at the database
and application level.

Demonstrate competency designing a relational database In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
management system using Unified Modeling Language
(UML).

Demonstrate competency administering a relational In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
database, including DBA tasks such as authentication,
authorization, performance tuning, normalization & denormalization, encryption, concurrency control,
transaction support, backup and recovery strategies, XML,
and criteria for database selection.

Demonstrate competency in designing relational database In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
management systems for eventual integration with data
warehousing (DW) solution(s) and designing extraction /
transformation / and migration procedures of tuples and
attributes.

Articulate in oral and written form all aspects of the In-Class Labs, Homework, Group Project
relational database management system, including how it
securely stores data, enforces complex business
requirements, and how it makes the organization
operations more efficient.

Modules
The class will be organized into four modules. The first three will focus on skills. In these modules, the student will
learn to use a database design (Oracle Data Modeler) tool to design and generate a database schema, a procedural
programming language that incorporates SQL statements, and a Graphical User Environment (SQL Developer,
Oracle Enterprise Manager, and/or TOAD) for managing the RDBMS and program units. For these modules, we
will spend some of our time working on our laptops in class with the tools. In the fourth module, we will learn
about and discuss a series of advanced topics that will include distributed databases, grid technology, objectoriented database issues, data warehousing, data mining, No-SQL databases, and database web connectivity.
## Module 1 – Database Design and Development

In this module, we will learn how to use a database design tool, Oracle Data Modeler, to develop a database model
and generate the SQL code to build tables. We will review the principles of good database design and the building
blocks of SQL and we’ll learn about the use of design tools for database development.
## Module 2 – Program Development with SQL and PL/SQL

PL/SQL is Oracle’s SQL-based procedural programming language. In this module, we will write program
blocks and learn how to create and use procedures, functions, and packages. The emphasis will be on good
program design and the introduction of new concepts like triggers and cursors. A discussion and demonstration
of SQL and PL/SQL development environments will be compared against the command-line interface of the
SQL*plus application (TOAD, SQL Developer, etc…).
## Module 3 – Database Management

In this module, we will use SQL Developer, Oracle Enterprise Manager and/or TOAD, to manage and Oracle
RDBMS. In addition to creating an Oracle Instance, we will explore the following topics: Oracle Physical
Architecture, Storage Concepts and Settings, Data Management, Table Management, Constraints, Indexes,
Security Management, Performance Monitoring, Database Maintenance, and Backup and Recovery.
## Module 4 – Advanced Database Management Topics

In this module, we will look at current and emerging issues involving database management systems. There will
be assigned readings for each topic in this module that will serve as a starting point for our lecture and
discussion of that topic.

Schedule
(tentative…subject to change during semester)
### Date Module Lecture/Lab Readings/References

### January 18 1 Compare SQL / NoSQL CB: Ch. 12

### Database Design CB: Ch. 13

### Advanced Database Design CB: Ch. 14 & 15

Oracle DataModeler
### Oracle DataModeler Lab 1

### January 25 2 Advanced SQL CB: Ch. 6

### SQL Lab 2 CB: Ch. 7

February 1 2 Introduction to PL/SQL CB: Ch. 8 pgs. 224 – 240
### Cursors and Subprograms JC: Ch. 1, 2, & 3

### PL/SQL Lab 3 & PL/SQL Lab 4

February 8 2 Advanced PL/SQL CB: Ch. 8 pgs. 224 – 240
### Stored Procedures, Functions, JC: Ch. 1, 2, & 3

Packages, and Exceptions
Database Triggers
Database Jobs
Triggers Lab 5
February 15 3 Database Administration CB. Ch. 8 pgs. 224 – 240
### DBA Lab 6 JC: Ch. 4 – 7

JC: Ch. 9
Handouts
CB: Ch. 20
February 22 3 Database Administration CB. Ch. 8 pgs. 224 – 240
### JC: Ch. 4 – 7

JC: Ch. 9
Handouts
CB: Ch. 20
March 1 4 Data Warehousing, OLAP, Data CB: Ch. 24 – 25
### Mining CB: Ch. 31

Distributed Databases
CB: Ch. 33
Grid Computing
CB: Ch. 34
* Remember to bring your laptop to class on lab days.

Assignments
There will be four assignments based on your work with the tools in the lab sessions. In general, these will be due
every week or every other week. There will also be a project assignment for which you’ll work in groups to design
a database, implement it, create database objects to enforce complex business rule, analyze and performance tune
the database, and build reports that can be used to interact with the database.

Following is a list of due dates for each assignment.

Assignment Module Due Date (EST)
1 1 – Oracle DataModeler January 25@6:30 pm
2 1 – Advanced SQL February 1@6:30 pm
3 1 – PL/SQL February 15@ 6:30 pm
4 2 – Database Administration February 22@6:30 pm
Project Assignment Synthesis of modules 1, 2 & 3 March 1@6:30 pm
Lab Assignments
There will be 6 labs based on the technologies implemented in the class and covered in lectures. These labs will
provide exposure to the tools that will be used in the homework, group project, and on the final exam. In general,
these will be due every week or every other week, with each submission due before 11:59 pm on the Monday after
it is assigned. It is expected that students work on the lab(s) individually and submissions to demonstrate the
completion of the lab will be done through the canvas course. Students may be given time in class to work on a lab
but if the lab cannot be completed during the class, it is the responsibility of the student to complete it outside of
class before the posted deadline.

Following is a list of due dates for each lab assignment.
### Lab Module Due Date

1 1 – Oracle DataModeler January 22@11:59 pm
2 2 – Advanced SQL January 26@11:59 pm
3 3 – PL/SQL February 2@11:59 pm
4 4 – PL/SQL February 5@11:59 pm
5 5 – Triggers February 9@11:59 pm
6 6 – Database Administration February 16@11:59 pm
### Evaluation Method Grading Scale

Assignments 40% 100 – 98 A+ 81 – 80 BLab Assignments 20% 97 – 92 A 79 – 78 C+
Project Assignment 40% 91 – 90 A- 77 – 72 C
Total 100% 89 – 88 B+ 71 – 70 C87 – 82 B
Please note that class attendance is important. Although I don’t include attendance as part of the total percentage
making up your grade, failure to attend class on a regular basis will have an adverse effect on your grade.

Students will only have 2 weeks after an assignment or exam is returned to question or challenge a grade. After
the two week challenge period, the grade will not be changed. Please contact the instructor if you wish to question
a grade.

Grade Distribution
I plan on using the Heinz School guidelines in deciding on the overall grade distribution. Accordingly, the average
grade will be an A-. However, I grade on an absolute scale. If every student does well in the class, each will get an
A+ regardless of the recommended grading scale. The same holds true on the other end of the scale.

Final Exam
There will NOT be a Final Exam for this course.

Late assignment policy
Homework is due at 6:30 pm and Labs are due at 11:59 pm on the assigned due date. I WILL NOT accept late
homework unless the student has made arrangements with me prior to the assignment's due date. PRIOR
ARRANGEMENTS MUST BE MADE NO LATER THAN 12 PM ON THE DUE DATE.

Policy on cheating and plagiarism
For Homework Assignments 1 through 4 and Lab Assignments 1 through 6, each student is responsible for handing
in his/her own work. For the project assignment, each project team will work on and turn in work that has been
created and developed by only those members of the team. For any assignment found to be the partial or complete
result of cheating or plagiarism, your grade for that assignment will be zero. Cheating is defined as inappropriate
collaboration among students on an assignment. This can include copying someone else’s work with or without
alteration. When students are found to be collaborating in this way, BOTH will pay the penalty regardless of who
originated the work.

To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself, without any
use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate any content (text, video,
audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off any AI generated content as your
own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation
of CMU’s academic integrity policy (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html). If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course please email or talk to me.

Classroom Etiquette
This is a Master’s level course taught as part of a professional degree program. Accordingly, you are expected to
conduct yourself in a professional manner during the course and not engage in behavior in the class that would be
considered unacceptable in the workplace.
### I expect the following guidelines to be followed:

 Do not sleep in class
 I realize you may occasionally have had a rough day, are unwell, or otherwise are too tired to
stay awake. In those cases, it is acceptable to excuse yourself from that class.
 If you are always too tired to stay awake during lectures, you should consider finding an
alternative course offering.
 If you find the material boring, please let me know. I will attempt to modify the content to
better suit your interests and needs.
 Turn off your cell phones. You are not to answer calls while in class. If you have a need to be available
during class, please let me know before the lecture begins.
 Please don’t browse the web, instant message, or check email during lectures. If you use your laptop for
taking notes, please inform me prior to class.
 If you have a question about the content of the lecture, please direct it to me. If you are confused about an
issue, chances are your classmates are confused as well. Please do not ask for clarification from your
classmate during lecture.
### Take Care of Yourself

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol,
getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experience any academic stress, difficult life events, or feel anxiety or depression, we
strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is available to help: call
412.268.2922 and visit the website: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/ . Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or
family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.
6