# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, AI, 20%, Canvas, this course, Students, students, this class, readings, 40%
**Document Length**: 1387 words

---

# Sample syllabus – subject to change
### Carnegie Mellon University: Heinze College

90-442/90-769: CRITICAL AI STUDIES FOR PUBLIC POLICY
### Instructor:

Dr. Hong Shen
Office: Newell Simon Hall 2621
E-mail: hongs@cs.cmu.edu
Office hours: by appointment
### Course Overview:

With the rapid development of algorithmic and computing power as well as tech industry’s capacity to
collect massive data, Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques have increasingly become a ubiquitous part of
our everyday lives, ranging from fields such as communication, healthcare, finance, policing and
workplace management. Instead of studying AI as a purely technical subject, in this course, we will
critically examine the most recent developments and deployments of AI from a social, cultural and policy
perspective. Drawing upon real-world cases, this course will introduce students to the basic concepts
and main topics to think AI socially, help them understand the potential benefits and pitfalls of various
contemporary AI applications, and think toward future AI systems that can deliver greater social good.

The course will include a mix of lectures, group discussions, guest lectures and small group in-class
activities. Students will be asked to come to class having carefully read the required readings, submit
response and discussion questions on Canvas respond to each other. Building on concepts and cases
discussed in this class, students will also be asked to write two policy memos (one mini, one final) on the
topic of their choice.
### Prior Knowledge:

No prior knowledge required.
### Learning Objectives:

By the end of this course, you should be able to
### *  Analyze the social, cultural and policy dimensions of AI in various social domains

*  Identify potential benefits and pitfalls (e.g. bias) in existing AI applications
### *  Develop and write policy memos on AI systems that can yield greater societal benefits

### Learning Resources:

No textbook is required. Important learning resources, including readings and copies of the lecture notes
will be available on Canvas (https://canvas.cmu.edu/).
### Assignments and grading:

*  20% class participation
*  20% response to readings
Sample syllabus – subject to change
*  20% mini memo
*  40% policy memo
(1) Class participation (20%): You are expected to attend each class and participate in class
discussion. To receive full credit for this portion of the grade, students must consistently demonstrate
through participation in class discussions that they have completed the required readings and
thought the issues in advance of the class. I will take notes on participation.
(2) Response to readings (20%): By 8am every Monday and Wednesday during the class period
(except the first day), you should post ONE response (1-2 paragraphs) and ONE discussion
question on the "Discussions" on Canvas, based on readings assigned for that day’s class. You are
also expected to respond to at least ONE classmate on Canvas. There are in total 11 topics to
respond and only 10 will be counted toward your final grade. This means you can choose to skip
ONE topic.
(3) Mini Memo (20%): Students will work on a policy memo on topics discussed in this class. You are
expected to choose your topics, but I will also provide a small list of projects if you don’t have
preference. You need to submit a mini policy memo (2 to 3 pages, double spaced). The mini memo
could work as a proposal for your final memo.
(4) Policy memo (40%): Submit a final policy memo (~2500 words, 8 to 10 pages, double-spaced) on
the basis of your mini memo. Students would also be asked to describe in ~500 words what they
would need to do to convert their memo into a fully development policy memo. For example: refine
the research question, identify data sources, and a potential audience.
### Grading Scale:

### Grade Interpretation Points Graduation Credit

A+ Exceptional 4.33 Yes
A Excellent 4.00 Yes
A‐ Very Good 3.67 Yes
B+ Good 3.33 Yes
B Acceptable 3.00 Yes
B‐ Fair 2.67 Yes
C+ Poor 2.33 Yes
C Very Poor 2.00 Yes
C‐ Minimal Passing 1.67 Yes
### R Failing 0 No

### I Incomplete 0 No

See the Heinz College Student Handbook for more information
### Academic Integrity:

Students are expected to understand and comply with the Carnegie Mellon University's policies regarding
Cheating and Plagiarism: (http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html). You are also
encouraged to review the Undergraduate Academic Discipline
(http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/AcadRegs.html); and Graduate Academic Discipline
(http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/GradDisc.html). If you have any question about whether some
activity would constitute cheating, please feel free to ask.
### Late submission:

If an illness or something urgent prevents you from submitting your work, please consult the instructor
promptly by email.

Sample syllabus – subject to change
### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities:

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I
encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible.

I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you
may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Take Care of Yourself:

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and
alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and
cope with stress. All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning
how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone you know
experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly
encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling. Consider reaching out to a friend,
faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.
### Generative AI Policy:

You are welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this course. These programs
can be powerful tools for learning and other productive pursuits, including completing some assignments
in less time, helping you generate new ideas, or serving as a personalized learning tool.

However, your ethical responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow CMU’s academic
integrity policy. Note that this policy applies to all uncited or improperly cited use of content, whether that
work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI. If you use a generative AI
tool to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work. In
practice, cutting and pasting content from any source without citation is plagiarism. Likewise,
paraphrasing content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any generative AI
tool without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism.
### Here are some specific expectations for your use of AI generation tools in this course:

### *  You can include AI generated content verbatim into a writing assignment with quotations and a

citation.
*  You can paraphrase AI generated content with a citation.
*  You can include non-text AI generated content (images, video, code, etc.) with an appropriate
citation, when expressly permitted in the assignment prompt.
### *  You will conduct your own research and generate bibliographies yourself for topics that you have

researched.
*  You will not use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work.
### *  Finally, it is important that you recognize that generative AI tools frequently provide users with

incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate
contradictory statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and
sometimes integrate biased or offensive concepts. Code generation models may produce
inaccurate outputs. Image generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

While you may use these tools in the work you create for this class, it is important to note that you
understand you are ultimately responsible for the content that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased,
unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be treated as such during the evaluation of your work.

Sample syllabus – subject to change
Sample syllabus – subject to change
5