# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Canvas, CMU, an external site, three, this course, the model, Jupyter notebooks, Python, the university, ###
**Document Length**: 1535 words

---

# Course Syllabus
Course Syllabus
Advanced Business Analytics (95-866 Z2, Fall 2024)
Instructor
Ronald Stone
Contact: rs6c@cmu.edu
### Course Description:

In this course, we will be studying useful probability/statistical models that can be
applied in business practice to perform consumer behavior analysis. In particular, we
will focus on two key aspects of user (or product) behavior: timing process and counting
process. The former will focus on the timing of a user doing something (when will a user
churn from a firm, when will a product drop out of bestseller list, when will a user adopt
a new product, and so on). The latter will focus on how many items are purchased or
how many users are adopting and so on. Time permitting, we will also introduce choice
process (out of a number of choices, which product is chosen). We will also examine
issues of sales concentration and models of long tail using these processes.

With each lecture, we will be using real world datasets to apply the learning in lectures
to a practical problem facing a manager. Students will store datasets and retrieve the
relevant information before any analysis can be performed.

By the end of course, students are expected to be able to
1. identify the appropriate mathematical model for the consumer behavior under study
(survival model, count model, etc.)
2. build the model of consumer behavior,
3. apply the model to data to test the accuracy and perform necessary tweaks, and
4. based on the model constructed, predict outcome change in response to firm
strategy
Textbook: No required textbook for this course. Lecture slides and reading materials
will be posted along the line.

Course Website: We will be using Canvas to post lecture videos, slides, reading
materials, assignments, and grades. Please check the update on Canvas periodically.

### Lecture Format:

We will be using a flipped class model for this class.
## Part I: First, we will post lecturer videos and slides beforehand. Lecture videos are

usually uploaded by the end of Sundays and Wednesdays. Video links will be posted
under each lecture module.

You will need your Andrew ID and Password to log onto the system to watch the
videos. Along with each video, I will also provide a short documentation to help you
better catch the key points of the lecture. You are required to watch the lecture videos
before each recitation.
## Part II: I will conduct weekly recitations to review the important points covered in the

lecture videos, go through practice problems, and answer your questions. The focus will
be on the application. It is required that you watch the lecture videos and read the
lecture slides beforehand. I highly encourage you to send any of your
questions/suggestions before the recitation so that I can tailor the recitation better to
your needs. Attendance and participation of recitation are highly encouraged.

Software: We will rely mostly on the Python programming language with the Numpy
and Pandas packages for model estimation in this course. The analyses will be
performed in Jupyter notebooks.

Prerequisites: Basic probability and statistics. (Familiarity with joint probabilities and
Bayes Rule is beneficial.) Knowledges of regression analysis (especially maximum
likelihood estimation) is preferred, but not required. Familiarity with Jupyter notebooks
and Python (including the Numpy and Pandas packages).
### Course Outline:

Basic regressions model and beyond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Week 1-2
Modeling “timing” or “when” decision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Week 3-4
Modeling “how many” decision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Week 5-6
Modeling“choice” decision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Week 7-8
Grading: Grades will be based entirely on three deliverables:
## 1. Homework - 45 points

## 2. Quizzes - 10 points

## 3. Final exam - 45 points

Homework- We will have three assignments in total. Each assignment will carry the
same weight. A lot of the problem solving will be performed in Jupyter notebooks using
Python. You are required to submit your answer along with your Jupyter notebooks for
your homework. You will be graded based on the accuracy of your answer and
completeness of your steps.

Quizzes- We will have three quizzes in total. Quizzes will usually be conducted during
the weekend. You can choose your time to finish the quiz, and the quiz will be timed
once you start. Quiz will be posted on Canvas. All your quizzes will be graded, but only
highest two will be counted towards your final grade.

Final Exam- More details of the exams will be announced later.

The instructor will apply a curve when deciding on the final assignment of letter grades
based on the numeric grades, in order to meet Heinz College standards for mean
student GPA in advanced/concentration courses.

Late Homework: Each student has 48 hours total of leeway in late homework
submission. You may choose to allocate them as you wish among the three homework
assignments. Once the 48 hours are used up, no late assignments will further be
accepted.

Regrading Policy: If there is any question regarding the grading of homework, please
contact the instructor within seven days after receiving your grades and comments.

Since I will be posting solution to the homework, you are expected to compare the
solution with your own write-up before sending the request.

Academic Integrity: Group study is encouraged. However, the homework assignments
MUST entirely be your own work. The derivations, estimation results, and descriptions
cannot be copied from another person or from any other source. Submissions where
these details are identical or nearly identical, either among peers or with another
source, will be regarded as cheating. The minimum sanction for copying or other forms
of cheating on a homework assignment is the loss of credit equal to two assignments,
and sanctions may range up to the termination of your enrollment at CMU. All
suspected incidents will be recorded with Heinz College administration at the same time
the student is notified.

Accommodations: Carnegie Mellon University is dedicated to providing accessible
resources for all students. The Office of Disability Resources website may be found via
the following link: Carnegie Mellon Office of Disability ResourcesLinks to an external
site.Links to an external site. (https://www.cmu.edu/disability-resources/index.html)

Statement of Support for Students’ Health & Well-being: Take care of yourself. Do
your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising,
avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or
feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and
visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/Links to an external site.. Consider reaching out to
a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support
that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police
On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
Diversity: We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many
ways, and this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and
inclusive campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify
ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex,
disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief,
veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many
others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring
to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only
because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue
justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work,
inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community
that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or
unintentional. They contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals
and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone who
experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment on the basis of identity to speak out
for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after the incident has
passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
*  Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 2682150
*  Report-It (Links to an external site.) online anonymous reporting
platform: reportit.net (Links to an external site.) username: tartans password: plaid

All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any
following actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared
experiences to transform our campus climate to be more equitable and just.