# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Fall 2024 Version, 94-419/819, Canvas, students, the project, CMU, 94, 12, the team
**Document Length**: 5620 words

---

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 1 of 12

Lean Innovation Lab (94-491 / 94-891)
Carnegie Mellon University - Master of Information Systems Management Program
12(variable) Units
Faculty Advisors: J. David Riel, 2107E Hamburg Hall, 412-268-5542, djriel@cmu.edu,
Office Hours: 30 minutes following class each class
### Teaching Assistant: TBD, Office Hours: TBD

Course Administrator: Randy F. Trzeciak, CIC 3335, 412.268.7040, randallt@andrew.cmu.edu
Heinz Academic calendar: https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/heinz-shared/_files/img/current-students/heinzcollege-academic-calendar-2023-24.pdf
### Course Prerequisites:

Optional prerequisites include experience with lean innovation frameworks, project management/IT project
management, critical thinking skills, estimation, org management, communication & strategizing
### Course Description:

Lean Innovation Lab is a specialized Heinz College course designed to challenge students to tackle new &
emerging problems through mission-driven entrepreneurship. Students select from a set of carefully
curated, complex, real-world problem sets and learn about the problem sponsors & their organization, their
culture, & their mission to instill a culture of relentless resilience & new innovative practice. Students will
learn to apply Lean Innovation frameworks & tools to identify key stakeholders, understand their needs, &
develop & test iterative minimum viable products (MVPs) that lead to an applicable solution. Using a
flipped-classroom approach, the students will brief the teaching team on their progress each week &
receive direct coaching from their instructors & advisors, mentors, & subject matter experts from across
public & private entrepreneurship ecosystems. Problem sets will focus on solving problems across public
agencies in government as well as dual-use applications in private sectors & industries.

Problem sets will focus on solving problems in specific public agencies including the armed forces (Navy,
Army, USAF, Marines, National Guard, etc.) & branches of DHS including the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), Transportation
Security Administration (TSA), etc. as well as private sector firms.
### High-Level Learning Objectives & Outcomes:

### Skills & knowledge the students are expected to gain & how they will be assessed include:

-Hands-on experience in understanding & working w/ public & private entities on real-world problems
-Applying appropriate Lean LaunchPad tools & techniques (MMC, VPC, etc.) to successfully organize &
operate within a public/private sector project boundary which will allow for the proper evaluation,
escalation, risk management, summarization & congregation of appropriate deliverables to all stakeholders
(beneficiaries, program sponsor, faculty, etc.) involved in the project.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 2 of 12

-An appropriate selection & demonstration of hypothesis formulating, discovery, info gathering &
hypothesis testing through confident knowledge & skills that will be applied to the final prototype &/or
other deliverables.
-Development of critical thinking skills, interviewing, teamwork, complex problem solving, & building of
professional networks through an entrepreneurial mindset.
-Applications of extracting insights from data collection for effective problem assessment & solving that
are applied to the scope development through creation of MVPs & that allow for a properly vetted design,
construction, & eventual summation of the project.
-Clear, concise, & effective storytelling through presentation of findings & final deliverables with a formal
client signoff process that ensures proper closure to the expected final project state.
### Reading Materials & Campus Wide Resources:

Project-specific readings & forms are available on Canvas or will be distributed in the first meeting.
### Textbooks used for reference & are free via the CMU library include:

## 1. Business Model Generation: Osterwalder, et al [BMG]

## 2. Value Proposition Design: Osterwalder, et al [VPC]

## 3. Startup Owner’s Manual: Blank & Dorf [SOM]

### Software includes (but is not limited to):

Communication & tracking software: Slack, MS Teams, Piazza (on Canvas), Discord, etc.

Project specific tracking software: Trello, MS Project, or anything utilizing a Gannt Chart, Burndown
Chart, Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), etc.

File repository & versioning: GitHub, Box, Google Drive, Dropbox, Canvas, etc.

Feel free to utilize your favorite coding & development tools for both your prototypes & documentation /
presentations. Make sure that everyone on the team as well as the program sponsor & faculty advisor have
the ability to access & review.
### Attendance Policy:

Students are expected to attend all scheduled mandatory meetings with the faculty advisors & program
sponsors, as well as all presentations & final requirements. As most of this course involves team-based
work including live presentations, it is imperative that students are a part of each active session including
all interview sessions. Absences/lateness must be handled professionally & approved in advance.
### Cheating, Plagiarism, & Academic Integrity:

Students at CMU are engaged in preparation for professional activity of the highest standards. Each
profession constrains its members with both ethical responsibilities & disciplinary limits. To assure validity
of the learning experience, Carnegie Mellon establishes clear standards for student work. You are required
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 3 of 12

to be familiar with all university policies on this subject (see https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-&-
student-life/academic-integrity.html). An extract of these policies is reproduced here:
In any presentation, creative, artistic, or research, it is the ethical responsibility of each student to produce
their own academic work & identify the conceptual sources of the work submitted. Failure to do so is
dishonest & is the basis for a charge of cheating or plagiarism, which is subject to disciplinary action.
### Cheating includes but is not necessarily limited to:

o Plagiarism which is explained below.
o Submission of work that is not the student's own for any part of the deliverables.
o Submission or use of falsified data.
o Theft of or unauthorized access to an exam or quiz. (if applicable)
o Use of an alternate, stand-in or proxy during an examination. (if applicable)
o Use of unauthorized material including textbooks, notes or computer programs in the preparation of
an assignment or during an examination. (if applicable)
o Supplying or communicating in any way unauthorized information to another student for work on
the project outside of the team or during an examination (if applicable).
o Collaboration in the preparation of work on the project outside of the team. Unless specifically
permitted or required by the advisor, collaboration will usually be viewed by the university as
cheating. Each student is responsible for understanding the policies of the department offering any
course as they refer to the amount of help & collaboration permitted in preparation of projects.
o Submission of the same work for credit in two projects without obtaining instructor permission.

Plagiarism includes (but not limited to) failure to indicate source with quotation marks or footnotes
where appropriate if any of the following are reproduced in the work submitted by a student:
o A phrase, written or musical.
o A graphic element.
o A proof.
o Specific language.
o An idea derived from the work, published or unpublished, of another person.

One application of this plagiarism policy for this course is that you may not provide or receive information
on individual work completed (applicable for work spanning more than one semester) unless approved
beforehand. This includes both students from prior semesters & students from other sections in this
semester. The rule of thumb is that the work provided is to be original work from the individual & the team.
### Course Web Sites:

Canvas: http://canvas.cmu.edu
Slack: https://slack.com/
We will use the Canvas site for hosting initial information & announcements. If you are registered in a LIL
project, you should already have access. Your login id is your Andrew ID & password. Canvas has an upto-date copy of the syllabus, schedule, pertinent documentation, A/V, & any LIL announcements. While we
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 4 of 12

will try to make announcements both in our meetings & on Canvas & Slack, it is a good idea for you to
check & utilize both sites regularly. Additionally, Canvas has links to readings & relevant sites mentioned
in our meetings with more extensive background materials.

Slack is our primary communication & sharing tool. All project related information should be addressed
through this site. No other sites or tools should be used without prior authorization from faculty advisors.
### Grading & Course Requirements:

You will be evaluated based on your project analyses, participation in discussions, & project presentations.

Your project analyses will be graded as group work. Your grades for individual participation & technical
input will be your own. Grades will tentatively be given at the mid-term & final. Final grades will also be
contingent on an evaluation of changes between the mid-term & final grade (meaning that the final grade
can be affected by increase/decrease of how you were graded in the mid-term). Canvas should only be used
to track individual grades, not cumulative. The grading system on Canvas does not accurately track the
grading scheme used in this class. Please follow up with the TA &/or myself for grading questions.

The final grade for the course is distributed among various components of both team & individual
contributions:
Grade
Individual
Team Professionalism (1/6)
Professionalism (1/6)
(based on client/sponsor evaluations, team
(based on peer &
responsibilities to advisor & client such as = 1/3
client/sponsor evaluations,
meeting attendance, responsiveness, &
observations, attendance, etc.)
organization of project work)
Individual Technical (2/6)
Team Technical (2/6)
(based on peer &
(based on client/sponsor evaluations, the teams’
client/sponsor evaluations,
abilities to research, scope, & implement
research, scoping, technical = 2/3
technologies to solve the client problem, as well
knowledge & contributions of
as documenting & presenting their findings)
your work to the team effort)
Total Grade: 1
Total grade equates to the max you can earn for the project (TG*100) which will equate to the final letter
grade based on a 100-point scale. Grading Scale is as follows:
### GPA Letter Percentage GPA Letter Percentage

### Grade Grade Grade Grade

## 4.33 A+ 98-100+ 2.67 B- 80-83.9

## 4.00 A 94-97.9 2.33 C+ 77-79.9

## 3.67 A- 90-93.9 2.00 C 74-76.9

94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 5 of 12

## 3.33 B+ 87-89.9 1.67 C- 70-73.9

## 3.00 B 84-86.9 0 R 0-69.9

### An example breakdown is as follows:

### Student Individual Individual Team Team Total Letter

### Name Tech Prof. Tech Prof. Grade

Jean Doe 95 95 89 90 92.1 AJeff Dee 90 83 89 90 88.5 B+
### Jake Dell 80 100 89 90 88 B+

Jill Dean 100 100 89 90 94.5 A
Other areas that will be considered for grading can include assessments, attendance to other project
presentations, & other requirements set forth in the project. These are outlined in the following section.
### Rubrics for Grading Each Section:

Each grade section is made up of one or more evaluation instruments to determine the final grade. The
following outlines these criteria for determining that sections grade component.
### Team Technical Grading Rubric (2/6):

Technical Analysis (60%) - understanding of the project & the issues highlighted, & solid reasoning/development
for your argument/recommendation/prototype based on the problem or opportunity presented.

LEVEL OF Exemplary Accomplished Developing Needs work
PROFICIENCY (9-10) (7-8) (4-6) (1-3)
Problem Scoping Clearly defines the problem, Defines the problem, with an Sometimes makes Doesn’t make
its boundaries & the understanding of its contributions to defining the contributions to define the
project’s scope through boundaries & the project’s project’s scope, but ideas project’s scope through
hypothesis analysis & scope through hypothesis through the hypothesis hypothesis analysis &
testing. analysis & testing. analysis & testing are vague. testing.

Problem Solving Reviews multiple approaches Identifies multiple Identifies only a single Identifies one or more
for solving the problem that approaches for solving the approach without other approaches to solving the
identifies a grounded problem, only some of which considerations for solving problem but that do not
approach within the specific apply within a specific the problem but that applies apply within the specific
context utilizing the Lean context utilizing the Lean within the specific context & context or that utilize the
Launchpad methodology. Launchpad methodology. may or may not utilize the Lean Launchpad
Lean Launchpad methodology.
methodology effectively.

Technology & Clear knowledge & know- Some knowledge & Vague incorporations or No knowledge or
Managerial how to research & understanding of the directions of technical understanding of the
Implementation implement appropriate Lean methodology & technology research & implementations. technology to be
(strength, testing, LaunchPad methodologies & to incorporate within the Technical needs are still in incorporated within the
evaluation, quality) technologies for the project. project are displayed. development but show signs project, technical needs
This could include areas out Methods & technical needs of creating a solution to the are not met, or do not
of scope that add value & are mostly met to provide client problem but may not work.
were approved. adequate project delivery & be met within the project.
a solution to problem area(s) No cohesiveness between
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 6 of 12

Business & technological identified by the client. Managerial &/or technical business & technical
decisions are synergistic & decisions made for the MVPs constraints through
displayed thoroughly Managerial &/or technical & through the VPCs & MMCs managerial &/or technical
through development of decisions made for the MVPs may show major lack of decisions made for the
MVPs & scoped through the & through the VPCs & MMCs cohesiveness. MVPs & through the VPCs
VPC & MMC process. may show some minor lack & MMCs.
of cohesiveness. Prototype/demo/component
Prototype/demo/component presents & is delivered but Prototype/demo/compon
presents & is delivered Prototype/demo/component shows many issues. ent is not delivered or
effectively. presents & is delivered but does not function as it
with minor issues. should.

Generates valid Recommended solution is Solution/decision is Solution/decision is Only one solution is
conclusions/decisions based on stated criteria, reasonable; further analysis reasonable; further analysis considered, or other
& considers the analysis & constraints & of some of the alternatives of some of the alternatives solutions were ignored or
audience considers other options. or constraints defer different or constraints may have led incompletely analyzed.

Project expectations are fully recommendations. Project to different Many constraints &
met or exceeded for all expectations are mostly met. recommendations. Project criteria were ignored.
beneficiaries. Considers not Beneficiaries are mostly expectations are somewhat Project analysis shows
only the current but future considered in the final met. Beneficiaries are poor project outcomes.
scope. outcomes. somewhat considered in the Beneficiaries are rarely or
final outcomes. not considered for the
final outcomes.

Technical Content (40%) - based on the use of readings, resources, & supporting examples.

LEVEL OF Exemplary Accomplished Developing Needs work
PROFICIENCY (9-10) (7-8) (4-6) (1-3)
Identifies All relevant information is Sufficient information is Some relevant information is Insufficient information is
relevant & obtained, & information obtained, & most sources obtained but information obtained &/or sources lack
valid sources sources are valid & are valid. sources are not always valid & validity & reliability.
of accurate. accurate.
information Solutions are mostly Solutions have no support by the
to support Solutions are well supported by the Solutions are not well supported evidence & nothing to show that
decision- supported by a deep & information gathered that by the information gathered & the information gathered creates
making logical connection create a connection doesn’t show a connection a connection between the
through your between research & between research & between research & concept. research & concept.
research conceptualizations. concept.

Alternatives exploring different Alternatives are not considered
Alternatives exploring Alternatives are considered facets of use are rarely or are not valid.
different facets of use are but are not fully vetted. considered or are not
considered & are appropriately analyzed for Does not identify appropriate
appropriately analyzed for Identifies appropriate data feasibility data for analysis.
feasibility. for analysis & a
methodology for addressing Attempts to identify data for Sketches, prototypes, graphs
Identifies appropriate the problem. analysis but may not understand &/or scenarios are not used &/or
data for analysis & or have an optimal methodology do not bring opportunity areas to
exceeds findings in an Sketches, prototypes, graphs to solve the problem. life or only cause confusion.
optimal methodology to &/or scenarios are
address the problem. sometimes used or may be Sketches, prototypes, graphs
slightly inconsistent. &/or scenarios are used but
Sketches, prototypes, need a lot of explanation to
graphs &/or scenarios are bring opportunity areas to life or
used to bring opportunity struggle to make a connection.
areas to life.

This rubric is combined with the client/sponsor feedback to determine the final grade (R+C/2).
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 7 of 12

### The following three criteria will be examined:

## 1. Technical outcomes/productions from the team. Were all requests during the first mini-semester met

with technical expertise?
## 2. Fulfillment of project goals by the sponsor. Did the team meet all objectives set forth by the sponsor?

## 3. Confidence in the output & submission of the project. Is the sponsor happy with the final

product/prototype/presentation/etc.?
### Team Professionalism Grading Rubric (1/6):

Since the project relies on group work, we will use a client review instrument to ensure that feedback from
the client about the teams’ progress contributions are considered in the determination of the final grade. This
is in tandem with the following rubric that will be used to assess the team’s professionalism in the project.

Professional Skills (100%) - Clear structure & organization of the deliverables, following the format requirements, &
staying within the page/time limit as well as adhering to all professional standards during the project.

LEVEL OF Exemplary Accomplished Developing Needs work
PROFICIENCY (9-10) (7-8) (4-6) (1-3)
Client Skills Meeting interactions are Meeting interactions are Meeting interactions are Meeting interactions are
professional & productive, mostly professional & somewhat professional & unprofessional &/or unproductive.
eliminates jargon & productive. Few productive. More Multiple miscommunications &
explains ideas well. miscommunications & miscommunications & disconnects, & full for jargon &
disconnects with some disconnects with some misunderstandings of ideas.

All beneficiary meetings jargon that may interfere jargon that may interfere
are met in a timely fashion with explanation of ideas. with explanation of ideas. Most beneficiary meetings are not
& are well organized in meeting time considerations & are
advance. Most beneficiary meetings Most beneficiary meetings showing a lack of organization in
are met in a timely fashion & are needing improvement advance.

Demonstrates a high level are mostly organized in to time considerations &
of comfort & connection advance. are only somewhat High degree of discomfort
with the audience. organized in advance. interacting with the audience.

Speakers respond Demonstrates a decent level Speakers have difficulty responding
accurately & appropriately of comfort with the Demonstrates a slight clearly & accurately to audience
to audience questions & audience. Speakers respond discomfort with the questions or never responds.
comments. to most questions accurately audience. Speakers respond
& appropriately but may be to questions less accurately
slower to respond. & appropriately, &/or
respond slowly.

Presentation Slides are error-free & Slides are mostly error-free Slides are not completely Slides contain errors & lack a
Skills (visual, logically present the main & logically present the main error-free &/or logically logical progression. Major aspects
oral, written components of the components of the process presenting the main of the analysis or
documentation) process & & recommendations. components of the process recommendations are absent.
for telling the recommendations. & recommendations. Diagrams or graphics are absent or
story Material is completely confuse the audience.

Material is completely readable with some slight Material is readable with
legible, & the graphics effort, & graphics reiterate some challenges, & graphics Sentences are seeing many
highlight & support all of most the main ideas. somewhat reiterate the grammatical errors with many
the main ideas. Sentences Sentences are grammatical main ideas. Sentences are spelling errors present that
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 8 of 12

are grammatical with no with minimal spelling errors seeing grammatical errors completely hinder the reader.
spelling errors present. present that do not hinder with more spelling errors
the reader. present that start to hinder Speakers are often inaudible or
Speakers are audible & the reader. hesitant, often speaking in
fluent on their topic, & do Speakers are mostly audible incomplete sentences. Speakers
not rely on notes to & fluent on their topic & Speakers are somewhat rely heavily on notes.
present or respond. require minimal referral to audible & fluent on their
notes. topic & require continual Is not an effective summary & does
Is an effective summary of referral to notes or read not work visually.
the team’s efforts & works Is an effective summary of directly from slides.
visually & considers all the team’s efforts & is The full audience is not considered.
audiences. visually appealing & Is a slightly less effective
understandable for the summary of the team’s Time is well under or over allotted
Does not run over allotted audience. efforts & is less visually time (5+ minutes) or is extremely
time but stays within the appealing & understandable over or under page length.
ideal range (Within 1-2 May slightly run over time or for the audience.
minutes) or allotted page ends prematurely (2-4 Report lacks an overall
length & stays concise. minutes) or is over/under May run over time (over 2 organization. Reader has to make
page length. minutes) or ends considerable effort to understand
Report is well organized & prematurely (4-5 minutes), the underlying logic & flow of
clearly written. The Report is organized & clearly or grossly over or under ideas. Diagrams are absent or
underlying logic is clearly written. In all areas the logic page length. inconsistent with the text.
articulated & easy to or flow of ideas is clear to
follow. Diagrams or follow. Diagrams are Report is organized & Demoing of final products is not
analyses enhance & clarify consistent with the text. clearly written for the most successful, &/or does includes a
presentation of ideas. part. In some areas the logic backup plan that works as an
Sentences are Demoing of final products is or flow of ideas is difficult alternative.
grammatical & free from mostly successful & may or to follow. Diagrams are
spelling errors. may not include a backup somewhat consistent with
plan. the text.

Demoing of final products
is successful & includes a Demoing of final products is
backup plan. somewhat successful,
includes a backup plan that
needs improvements.

This rubric is combined with the client/sponsor feedback to determine the final grade (R+C/2). The following
three criteria will be examined:
## 1. Team responsiveness to communications; email, meetings, phone calls, etc. Did the team respond to all

inquiries & in a timely manner?
## 2. Team professionalism. Did the team approach all work with the sponsor in a professional manner?

## 3. Confidence in the output & submission of the project. Is the sponsor happy with the final

product/prototype/presentation/etc.?
### Individual Technical Rubric (2/6):

Since the project relies on group work, we use a peer review instrument to ensure that feedback from group
members about team member technical contributions are considered in determination of the final grade. This
is in tandem with the faculty advisor’s observations of student’s technical contributions to the team &
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 9 of 12

project, as well as knowledge of Lean Launchpad methodology through learning materials & assignments.
### Individual Professionalism Rubric (1/6):

Since projects rely on group work, we use a peer review instrument to ensure that feedback from group
members about team member professionalism are considered in determination of final grades. This is in
tandem with the faculty advisor’s observations of student’s professional contributions to the team & project.
### A Note on Regrade Requests:

### If you believe that your grade is inaccurate, you may request a regrade under the following conditions:

## 1. Regrade requests must be submitted in writing within 3 days of the date when the grade was given.

## 2. Regrade requests must outline reasons you deserve a change in your grade. Referencing another student’s

grade is inappropriate & irrelevant. While we do our best to apply an even standard across students, we
can’t discuss anyone else’s grade with you, so we need to deal with the merits of your individual case only.
## 3. We reserve the right to regrade the entire assignment requested for review & thus your grade may go up,

down, or stay the same. This regrade is considered final.
## 4. LIL project participation grades are inherently subjective & not subject to regrade requests. We will make

notes on participation at the end of each meeting & assign end of semester grades based on these notes.
### Late Submission Policy:

All late deliverables are subject to a grade penalty of 10% per day past the due date/time, with a maximum
of 4 days. Anything submitted beyond 4 days past the due date will receive an automatic 0. Teams &
individual submissions are subject to the same policy. Any issue with meeting a deadline must be cleared
through the advisor or client/sponsor prior to the submission date/time or will be subject to the penalty.

Use of Generative AI (ChatGPT)
I expect you will use AI (e.g., ChatGPT and image generation tools) in this class. In fact, some assignments
may require it. Learning to use AI is an emerging skill and to get started, I have provided three tutorials below:
 How to use ChatGPT to boost your writing
 The practical guide to using AI to do stuff
 APA citation guidelines for GAI (ChatGPT example)
### You should also be aware of the limits of ChatGPT:

 If you provide minimum-effort prompts, you will get low-quality results. You will need to refine your
prompts in order to get good outcomes. This will take work.
 Don’t trust everything it says. If it gives you a number or fact, assume it’s wrong unless you either know
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 10 of 12

the answer or can check with another source. You will be responsible for any errors or omissions provided
by the tool. It works best for topics you understand.
 AI is a tool, but one that you need to acknowledge using. Please include a paragraph at the end of any
assignment that uses AI explaining what you used the AI for and what prompts you used to get the results.

Failure to do so can constitute as an academic integrity violation.
 Be thoughtful about when this tool is useful. Don’t use it if it isn’t appropriate for the case or circumstance
### Resources we may use to validate work against generative AI (and that you can use) include:

https://aiwritingcheck.org/
https://www.turnitin.com/ (built into Canvas)
https://github.com/jwkirchenbauer/lm-watermarking
https://gptzero.me/
Some CMU strategies being employed include https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/technology/aitools/index.html
-You may use generative AI for the following work: Group & individual work towards the group
-You may NOT use generative AI for the following work: Surveys & individual assignments
-I am happy to meet and help you with these tools during office hours or after class.
### Diversity & Inclusion:

It is our intent that students from all diverse backgrounds & perspectives be well served by this course, that
students’ learning needs be addressed both in & out of this course, & that the diversity that students bring
to this course be viewed as a resource, strength & benefit. It is our intent to present materials & knowledge
that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, &
culture. Your suggestions are encouraged & appreciated. Please let us know ways to improve the
effectiveness & experience for you personally, or for other students on the team. In addition, if any of our
meetings conflict with your religious events, please let us know so we can make arrangements for you.

The topics & areas that we cover can vary, some of which can be difficult, not just intellectually but
emotionally. While we expect there to be rigorous discussion & even disagreement during our meetings,
we ask that you engage in discussion with care & empathy for the other members on the team as well as the
beneficiaries & sponsors we work with. Aim to disagree without becoming disagreeable. In this course we
will not shy away from the uncomfortable. Critically examining & assessing our most basic assumptions &
values is not just one of the tasks of philosophy but is an activity vital to living an authentic life. We urge
you to have the courage to the uncomfortable in this course. In exchange for your courage, we will work to
ensure an environment that supports your taking these intellectual & emotional risks.
### Student Health & Wellness:

CMU & all classes, including this one, strive to accommodate students in all capacities by creating a
learning environment that considers health & well-being of all students. A review the university policies
regarding health & wellness can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/current-gradstudents/health-&-wellness/index.html
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 11 of 12

Graduate student policies can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/index.html
Students who need to miss class should email their professors and/or TA’s. If personal accommodations are
needed, students should reach out to the Office of Disability Resources.
### Covid-19 Policies:

Facial Coverings: Facial coverings both indoors and outdoors are optional.

Vaccinations: All students, faculty & staff are no longer required to be up to date on vaccinations.

As of May 12 2023, CMU has decommissioned Tartan Testing operations and the lab. Testing is no
longer required. COVID-19 tests will be available in the vending machine located in the Cohon University
Center until supplies are depleted.

CMU no longer requires reporting COVID-19 cases. Community members who contract COVID-19
should follow the guidance of their care provider regarding isolation, as they would with any
communicable disease.
### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities:

If you have a disability & have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage
you to discuss your accommodations & needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with
you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability & would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability
Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Student Academic Success Center (SASC):

SASC focuses on creating spaces for students to engage in their coursework & approach learning through a
variety of group & individual tutoring options. They offer many opportunities for students to deepen their
understanding of who they are as learners, communicators, & scholars. Their workshops are free to the
CMU community & meet the needs of all disciplines & levels of study. SASC programs to support student
learning include the following (program titles link to webpages):
 Academic Coaching--This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support & group workshops
to help undergraduate & graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching
assists students with time management, productive learning & study habits, organization, stress
management, & other skills. Request an initial consultation here.
 Peer Tutoring--Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their
coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open
tutoring sessions during the fall & spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing
individualized & small group sessions. You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content,
clarify & ask questions, & work through practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses
currently being supported by Peer Tutoring.
 Communication Support--Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication
consulting as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, & visual communication in
texts including IMRaD & thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters &
visual design, advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business & public policy
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 12 of 12

documents, data visualization, & team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate &
graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment on their website (inperson, zoom synchronous, or recorded video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or videos to
strengthen communication skills.
 Language & Cross-Cultural Support--This program supports students seeking help with language
& cross-cultural skills for academic & professional success through individual & group sessions.

Students can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations & strategies for
clear academic writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, & more. Make an appointment with a
Language Development Specialist to get individualized coaching.
 Supplemental Instruction (SI)--This program offers a non-remedial approach to learning in
historically difficult courses at CMU. It utilizes a peer-led collaborative group study approach to
help students succeed & is facilitated by an SI leader, a CMU student who has successfully
completed the course. SI offers a way to connect with other students studying the same course, a
guaranteed weekly study time that reinforces learning & retention of information, as well as a place
to learn & integrate study tools & exam techniques specific to a course. Visit the website to see
courses with SI available here.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Fall 2024 Version: 4/11/2024