# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Canvas, class, ###, one, Piazza, This assignment, Failure, October, November, the loss
**Document Length**: 4100 words

---

# The Heinz College
### Organizational Design and Implementation

94-700
Fall 2024, Mini 2
### Instructor: Professor Anna Mayo

Questions?

Piazza: https://piazza.com/cmu/fall2024/94700
Office Hours: Wednesdays 2-3 in Prof Mayo’s office (HbH 2203); or by appointment (email
atmayo@cmu.edu)
### Class Time and Location

## Section R2, Mondays & Wednesdays, 9:30am -10:50am, Hamburg Hall 2009

## Section P2, Mondays & Wednesdays, 11:00am -12:20pm, Hamburg Hall 2009

## Section O2, Mondays & Wednesdays, 3:30pm - 4:50pm, Hamburg Hall 1004

Course Learning Objectives
This course is designed to improve your effectiveness as an organizational member and leader by
introducing you to a variety of frameworks and tools that you can leverage in your own work. This course
will draw from over a century of research on organizational behavior, psychology, economics, sociology,
and more to provide an evidence-based foundation of knowledge about how people, teams and
organizations function. The course will cover this content via readings, videos/podcasts, case analyses, inclass exercises, and class discussions. By the end of this course, students will be better able to:
*  make better decisions;
*  design, launch, and lead a team;
*  navigate conflict, diagnose power, and influence others;
*  identify and use organizational structures to support motivation and coordination;
*  map and use informal networks; manage their own networks;
*  recognize culture and adapt to different contexts; and
*  implement change.

Required Course Materials
This course uses a variety of articles and chapters, cases, and podcasts that are available on Canvas.

Materials for in-class exercises will be provided during class sessions.

ODI - Mayo
Course Summary
### Class Preparation In-Class Quiz Homework Takeaway

October 21 [Read] The Hidden Traps in Decision Making
Intro to ODI; (Hammond et al., 2006) [20-30 mins]
Decision Making 1
[Listen] Daniel Kahneman Doesn't Trust Your
How to make
Intuition (2023) [36 mins]
better decisions
October 23 [Read] Making Dumb Groups Smarter (Sunstein & Activity: Hiring at Individual Homework
Decision Making 2 Hastie, 2014) [17-25 mins] Atlantis (no prep (1) Due Friday Oct 25
needed) – Atlantis Case Report
### October 28 [Read] Leading Teams (Bernstein, 2016, only pages Case Discussion:

Leading Teams 1 3-31; optional: pages 32-40) [40-60 mins] MediSys
CASE: Medisys Corp.
we will collectively analyze this case with respect to
How to design,
the “Leading Teams” reading during class
launch, and lead
October 30 [Listen] Rethinking our work agreements with Mike Activity: Wise Individual Homework
a team
Leading Teams 2 Brevoort [40 mins – start at 2:51, run through 42:22] Up! (no prep (2) Due Friday Nov 1–
needed) Wise up! Case Report
Project Teams
Assigned
### November 4 [Read] The Fundamentals of Power (Battilana & Case Discussion:

Managing and Casciaro, 2021; pp. 1-17) [20-30 mins] Satera
Influencing Others 1
Getting disputes resolved: Designing systems
at the costs of conflict. Chapter 1 (Ury, Brett &
Goldberg, 1988) [30 mins] How to navigate
conflict,
[Listen] Navigating Conflict (2019) [34 mins] diagnose power,
and influence
[CASE] The Satera Team at Imatron Systems, Inc. others
we will collectively analyze this case with respect to
the assigned readings/podcast during class
November 6 [Listen] The Truth about Honesty (2023) [60 mins] Activity: Difficult Team Charter Due
### Managing and Conversations Friday Nov 8

Influencing Others 1I (no prep needed)
ODI - Mayo
### Class Preparation In-Class Quiz Homework Takeaway

### November 11 Prep for Quiz Activity: Words Quiz 1

Organizational in Sentences
Design and [Listen] A Simple Way to Inspire your Team [19 (no prep needed)
Organizing 1 mins] How to identify
and use org.
[Read] On the Folly of Rewarding A while Hoping structures to
for B (Kerr, 2017) [13-20 mins] support
November 13 [Listen] Why Meetings Suck and How to Fix Them Team Meeting Team Meeting Agenda coordination and
Organizational (2023) [33 mins] Due BEFORE CLASS motivation
Design and
Organizing 2 Submit Team Meeting Agenda Before Class Team Meeting Notes
### Due Friday Nov 15

### November 18 [Read] Informal Networks (Krackhardt & Hanson, Activity:

Informal Networks 1 2011) [17-25 mins] Networks at
“Silicon Systems”
### How to map and

[Read] Better People Analytics (Leonardi & and the Pentagon
use informal
Contractor, 2018) [17-25 mins] (no prep needed)
networks; how to
### November 20 Activity: Individual Homework

manage your
### Informal Networks 2 Networks (3) Due Friday Nov 22

own network
(no prep needed) – Networks Case
Report
November 25 [Listen] What’s your Leadership Language? [15 Activity: Card How to
Culture mins (less if skipping ads)] Game recognize culture
(no prep needed) and develop your
global dexterity
### November 27 NO CLASS – THANKSGIVING BREAK

December 2 [Read] Evidence-Based Change Management Case Discussion: How to
Managing (Rousseau & ten Have, 2022) [45 mins] Cynthia Carroll implement
Organizational change
### Change [CASE] Cynthia Carroll Activity:

we will collectively analyze this case with respect to Firefighting the
the “Evidence-Based Change Management” reading 3D Way (no prep
during class needed)
### December 4 Study for Quiz Quiz 2

ODI Wrap [no other prep]
### December 11 TEAM FINAL REPORT DUE

ODI - Mayo
### Assessment Overview & Details

I. Class Participation (20% of final grade)
In-person attendance is expected in all class sessions. If you are facing extenuating circumstances,
please contact me ahead of the relevant class session to discuss options.

I have a few baseline expectations. I will be respectful of you by arriving to each class prepared and
on time; I expect you do the same. Preparation includes reading/listening to the assigned readings
and podcasts. I also expect everyone to participate in class-based activities. Doing these things will
achieve my baseline expectation and would earn average marks.

Beyond that baseline, higher marks can be earned via participation in class discussions. This can be in
the form of questions about or reactions to material being presented, contribution to a debrief of an inclass exercises, or other contributions to in-class discussions. Sharing your questions, knowledge and
experience will benefit the whole class. Constructive contribution to the class discussion and genuine
listening to others is an important element of class participation. It is not constructive to repeat what
classmates have already said or to offer a comment unrelated to the conversation at hand. Keep in
mind that high-quality participation in class discussions is the goal, not high quantity of airtime.

II. Individual Homework (each homework is worth 10% of your final grade, for a total of 30%)
## 1. Homework 1: Hiring at Atlantis Case Report

This assignment calls for a structured case report, wherein the case is your personal experience with
an in-class exercise. The exercise itself, “Hiring at Atlantis,” will be done in class and will give you
experience with individual and group decision making. Your assignment is 1) to analyze what
happened based on course content about *individual* decision making and 2) to imagine that you are
making a similar decision in the future and generate evidence-based recommendations for yourself.

You will then repeat those steps while thinking about *group* decision making. There is a template
on Canvas to follow that includes specific questions and offers a few example responses as a guide.
### NOTES:

## 1. You must cite ideas that are not your own and include an reference list (not counted in the page

limit; details available here). Failure to do so violates the academic integrity policy. At a minimum,
this will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.
## 2. You must include an AI appendix (not counted in the page limit; examples here). Failure to do so

will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.

This assignment is due on Canvas by Friday October 25, 11:59pm.
*If you are unable to participate in the exercise in class on October 23, contact Prof. Mayo
(atmayo@cmu.edu) for details about an alternative assignment.*
## 2. Homework 2: Wise Up! Case Report

This assignment calls for a structured case report, wherein the written case is your personal
experience with an in-class exercise. The exercise itself, “Wise Up!,” will be done in class and will
give you experience with working in a team Your assignment is 1) to analyze the team and its work
ODI - Mayo
with respect to the team design, launch, and process management, and 2) to imagine you were going
to repeat the exercise and generate evidence-based recommendations for the do-over. There is a
template on Canvas to follow that includes specific questions and some example responses.
### NOTES:

## 1. You must cite ideas that are not your own and include a reference list (not counted in the page

limit; details available here). Failure to do so violates the academic integrity policy. At a minimum,
this will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.
## 2. You must include an AI appendix (not counted in the page limit; examples here). Failure to do so

will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.

This assignment is due on Canvas by Friday November 1, 11:59pm.
*If you are unable to participate in the exercise in class on October 30, contact Prof. Mayo
(atmayo@cmu.edu) for details about an alternative assignment.*
## 3. Homework 3: Leveraging Networks

This assignment calls for conducting a self-assessment of your own network, analyzing it, and
developing recommendations for yourself with the aim of developing and leveraging your
network towards a goal of yours. Your assignment is 1) to complete the self-assessment (link
available on Canvas), and 2) to complete an analysis and develop recommendations for yourself.

There is a template on Canvas to follow that includes specific questions. No example responses
are provided; you should build on your learnings from homeworks 1 and 2.
### NOTES:

## 1. You must cite ideas that are not your own and include an reference list (not counted in the

page limit; details available here). Failure to do so violates the academic integrity policy. At a
minimum, this will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.
## 2. You must include an AI appendix (not counted in the page limit; examples here). Failure to do

so will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.

This assignment is due on Canvas by Friday November 22, 11:59pm.

III. Quizzes (Each quiz is worth 10% of your final grade, for a total of 20%)
## 1. Quiz 1 will be administered at the start of class on November 11. It will cover material on:

decision making; leading teams; managing and influencing others. All podcasts, readings, and
course slides are relevant.
## 2. Quiz 2 will be administered at the start of class on December 4. It will cover material on:

organizational design and organizing; informal networks; culture; managing organizational
change. All podcasts, readings, and course slides are relevant.

Both quizzes will be closed-book and will include multiple choice items.

ODI - Mayo
IV. Team Project. (There are multiple milestones, including a final report, totaling 30% of your final
grade)
Project Description
## Overview of the team project: Your assignment is to identify a real-life organizational problem and

demonstrate your ability to apply course concepts and theories to solve it. You will do this by focusing on
an organization, unit/team within an organization, or inter-organizational partnership.

Collecting data: To develop your case, I encourage you to find multiple relevant news stories, along with
any other sources that might be of interest including white papers, the company annual report, etc.

Analyzing the case and developing recommendations: A handout on the case method describes best
practices for crafting a strong case report.

Five Deliverables
## 1. Team Charter (5% of your final grade): in class on October 30, your team will be assigned and

given time to start work on a team charter. This assignment is designed to give you experience with
an evidence-based practice in launching a team. The template to follow is available on Canvas and
will allow your team to develop a shared understanding of the task and expectations for each other
and the process of working together. All questions in the template should be answered.

Team charters (one per team) are due by November 8 at 11:59pm.
- - -
## 2. Team Meeting Agenda (2.5% of your final grade): Meetings are a basic coordinating mechanism

in organizations, but they can be terribly ineffective. Meeting agendas can make meetings better, if
done well. This assignment is designed to give you experience with the process of crafting an
effective agenda.

BEFORE class on November 13, your team should have decided on the company for your case.

This assignment applies to the time your team will be given time to meet in class on November 13.

The course readings/podcasts leading up to this assignment will highlight what makes a meeting (and
agendas) more/less effective. You should design your agenda based on that course material as applied
in your own team based on your own preferences. A template is available in Canvas.

The meeting agenda (one per team) is due BEFORE class on November 13.
- - -
## 3. Team Meeting Minutes (2.5% of your final grade): Building on the meeting-agenda assignment,

it’s worth noting that meetings can be a waste of time if no one remembers what happened during
them and the team later has to repeat its work, or team members find themselves in a conflict because
they disagree about decisions that were made or who was supposed to do what and by when. Meeting
notes, when documented and in a useful format, can thus serve as an additional coordinating
mechanism by creating a brief record of what was decided, what’s an open question, what needs to
happen next, etc. This assignment is designed to give you experience with effective meeting
documentation. A template for notes from your in-class meeting is available in Canvas.

A copy of the meeting minutes is due by November 15 at 11:59pm.
- - -
ODI - Mayo
## 4. Team Project: Final Report (20% of your final grade):

## Background about case reports: A typical case report about a single entity would include the

following sections: Background, Analysis, Recommendations. See the “Case Report Handout” (link
in Canvas) for more details.

In this assignment, your team will be creating a report that includes a comparison of cases. That is,
rather than develop a case report about a single organization, the team will agree on a topic from class
(e.g., decision making, networks, culture) and each team member will first become an expert on a
different organization, focusing on their examination of that organization through the lens of the
agreed-upon topic. For instance, one teammate might examine John F Kennedy’s cabinet, with a team
focus, highlighting the team design (all close ties, often family members, all trained at elite
universities) and the known cabinet failures. Another teammate might examine Abraham Lincoln’s
“team of rivals” cabinet or the early Pixar team and their successes. As another example, one
teammate might examine Boeing’s latest blunders, focusing on organizational design, particularly
with regard to motivation mechanisms, while another teammate focuses on Wells Fargo, with the
same focus on organizational design and motivation.

Once each team member has become an expert on their chosen organization, the team’s task is to
come together to compare and contrast their learnings. The final report should include the following.

A) Background: For each organization your teammates investigated, you should briefly address the
question, what is the overarching situation or the main events at hand as they pertain to each
organization, unit/team within an organization, or inter-organizational partnership, that your team
selected? In doing so, you might also address: Who are the critical players? The relevant goals? Are
there any historical trends that are relevant?

B) Analysis & Case Comparison: For each of the organizations: Why is this situation so important
that someone needs to do something about it?

In a comparison of the organizations, you should address what is different or similar about the
primary organizational issue you focused on. For instance, you might consider whether some
organizations are doing things better / worse than others, and what the evidence is for that conclusion.

You might consider whether the primary issue you focused on has similar or different secondary
issues (e.g., the motivation structures are affecting the culture and exacerbating the quality failures at
Boeing, but perhaps elsewhere the motivation structures are affecting decision making).

C) Recommendations: Pick ONE (1) of the organizations your group investigated. Develop a
specific, evidence-based recommendation that is targeted to a specific person. Rather than say “the
organization” should do something, identify the person (or perhaps people) who should be taking
certain steps. You should address all issues identified in the analysis section. Also, be clear about the
timeline (e.g., What should be done *first*? What recommendations are for the near-term, what are
for the long-term?). Is this likely to work and what are the risks? Finally, would it work for the other
organizations, and why (or why not)?You should apply the topic(s) from class that are most relevant.

Your report should be no more than 2500 words (not counting references). Failure to adhere to
this requirement will result in a substantial grade reduction.
### NOTES:

## 1. You must cite ideas that are not your own and include an reference list (not counted in the page

limit; details available here). Failure to do so violates the academic integrity policy. At a minimum,
this will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.

ODI - Mayo
## 2. You must include an AI appendix (not counted in the page limit; examples here). Failure to do so

will result in the loss of one letter grade on the assignment.

The final report (one per team) is due December 11 at 11:59pm.
- - -
## 5. Peer Evaluations (*individual* completion of this evaluation is necessary to receive a grade on

your team report):
Teams are most effective when there is accountability at the team and individual level. And you are
best suited to evaluate the level of each teammate’s contribution. Therefore, each of you should
*privately* evaluate each teammate’s contribution using a form in Canvas. Responses may be used to
adjust individual scores on the team report.

Peer evaluations (completed individually) are due by December 12 at 11:59pm.

ODI - Mayo
### How to Ask Questions: Piazza

This term we will be using Piazza, a system highly catered to getting you help from classmates, the TAs, and myself.

Rather than emailing questions, I encourage you to post your questions on Piazza. The Piazza forum should be used for
general course-related questions that may interest others in the class. The quicker you begin asking questions on Piazza,
the quicker you'll benefit from the collective knowledge of your classmates and instructors. I encourage you to ask
questions when you're struggling to understand a concept.

Find our class signup link at: https://piazza.com/cmu/fall2024/94700
In Piazza, we will have dedicated areas (e.g. HW1) where you can post questions in a public or private setting. A public
post will be seen by the entire class, while a private post will only be seen by Prof Mayo and the TAs.

Public posts should be general, conceptual, or logistical and should not involve any assignment answers or otherwise
violate the academic integrity policy. Be sure to make your posts cohesive and comprehensive so that everyone can learn
from your questions.

Piazza Threads and Follow-ups. Each unique question or comment should be its own, original post (i.e., not part of a
conversation or thread). Of course, if you have a follow-up on the same question/topic, then it can be added to the original
post. If you post a question to an unrelated chain, we will ask you to repost the question as a separate post before
answering. This will allow for better clarity for everyone.

Monitoring Piazza. We will be monitoring Piazza every day to answer your question as quickly as possible. Please allow
24 hours during weekdays, and 48 hours on the weekends, and do not expect replies from Prof Mayo or the TAs outside
of typical working hours (9-5).

Responses are unlikely to be instantaneous; therefore, I encourage you to begin your assignments early and be proactive
about asking questions during weekdays.

We encourage you to check Piazza before sending any questions via email to any TAs; the answer to your question might
have already been posted.

Every student in the course will be enrolled in the Piazza. If you have not been enrolled in the first week of class, please
email Prof Mayo (atmayo@cmu.edu). If you have any technical problems, please send an email to team@piazza.com.

ODI - Mayo
### Policies and Course Statements

### Policy on Late and Missed Work

It would not be fair to all students to accept late work after releasing grades and feedback. I also want to provide timely
grades and feedback on assignments. Thus, unless otherwise discussed with a student ahead of time, I will accept
assignments for up to 2 days (48 hours) after the assigned deadline. Each day that it is late you will be eligible for one
lower letter grade (i.e., a submission that is turned in within one day of the submission is eligible for a max score of B+; if
turned in within two days of the submission it is eligible for a C+). After two days the work will not be accepted. Missed
assignments cannot be made up. If you anticipate this being a challenge, please contact me early in the semester.

Policy on Re-Grading
If you wish to have your work re-graded, I require that you wait 24 hours after grades are released. You can then contest
your grade and request a re-grading by emailing me (atmayo@cmu.edu) with specific notes about where your submission
addressed the areas in the rubric where you lost points. Re-grading will only be considered if the latter step is taken. You
have one week after the grade is released to contest the grade.

Policy on AI
You are free to use AI for any assignment. That said, AI is a tool, and one you must acknowledge. For any assignment for
which you used an AI tool, you must turn in an appendix describing a) what was used and b) how it was used. Failure to
do so constitutes a violation of the academic integrity policy.

Note: AI can be great for some things (e.g., improving writing, idea generation), but it has limitations.
*  If you provide minimum-effort prompts, you’ll get low quality results. Do the work to refine your prompts.
*  Don’t trust it! Assume there are errors. Fact-check the output and then edit/improve it. Add in references to the
scientific evidence we cover in class. This will work best for topics you understand (i.e., it’s hard to use for things
you know nothing about.) Ultimately, you are responsible for the accuracy of your work.
### Policy on Academic Integrity

Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are taken extremely seriously. Misrepresentation of another's
work as one's own is widely recognized as among the most serious violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it
occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or assignment or as cheating on an examination, regardless of whether it is a
take-home or in-class examination. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the program. There are
many other ways in which a violation can occur.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and require accommodations, please contact Catherine Getchell, Director of Disability Resources,
# 412-268-6121, getchell@cmu.edu. If you have an accommodations letter from the DRO, I encourage you to discuss your

accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate.
### Statement on Student Wellness

As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can interfere with learning, such as strained relationships,
increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation. These mental health
concerns or stressful events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your ability to participate in daily
activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more about confidential mental health
services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling
and Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Respect for Diversity
It is my intent that students from all backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course, that students’ learning
needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource,
strength and benefit.
10