# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, Java, the semester, your final grade, exams, help, lecture, English, Sep
**Document Length**: 2250 words

---

# 95712 Object Oriented Programming in JAVA

Fall 2024
Course Course Number: 95712
### Information Course Title: Object Oriented Programming in JAVA

Semester and Year: Fall 2024
Units: 12.0
## Section Lecture Lab Location

B Mon: 05:00PM 06:20PM Wed: 05:00PM 06:20PM HBH A301
D Mon: 06:30PM 07:50PM Wed: 06:30PM 07:50PM HBH 1002
### Instructor: Dr. Sakir Yucel

Email: syucel@andrew.cmu.edu
Please visit the course home page on Canvas to see instructor's and TAs' office hours
schedule.

Prerequisites (if None
applicable)
Description This course is an in-depth look at the popular programming language Java. It is not
intended for first time programmers. Basic syntax and program structure, classes,
composition, inheritance and polymorphism are examined. The Java collection classes
are studied in some detail, as is the set of I/O classes. Additional topics include
exception handling, building GUIs with JavaFX, and multi-threading. Throughout the
second half of the course, a series of homework problems develops a non-toy
application, illustrating by example how larger object-oriented programs are
organized.

Course Materials
Course Web Sites
(if applicable)
In this course, we will use the Canvas to post lecture notes and related documents
and to receive assignments electronically from students. To access Canvas, go to
https://canvas.cmu.edu/
### Supplemental Reference Textbooks:

*  Cay S. Horstmann, “Core Java, Volume 1 - Fundamentals,” 12th Edition
### *  Horstmann & Cornell, “Core Java, Volume 2 – Advanced Features,” 12th

Edition
### Online Texts:

*  The Java Tutorial http://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/

Downloads
*  Download Java 21. If your computer has not JDK, please go to
https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/ and download/install JDK.
*  Download Eclipse from www.eclipse.org.
*  Go to textbook webpage at https://horstmann.com/corejava/index.html and
download code for 12th edition.

There might be additional downloads later during the semester.
### Evaluation Activities: Count Scoring Points %

## Method Prereq test: 1 15 points 15 3.75

Self-assessment: 14 2 points each 28 7.00
Homework: 3 37.5 points each 75 18.75
Lab assignments: 9 Top 8 considered for 10 points each 80 20.00
Class quizzes: 10 Top 8 considered for 10 points each 80 20.00
Midterm exams: 3 Top 2 considered for 35 points each 70 17.50
Final exam: 1 52 points 52 13.00
Total 400 100.00
Learning/Course 1. Use a Java IDE as well as command line to test code snippets and author
Objectives professional programs.
## 2. Learn Java language basics, including types, operators and program control.

## 3. Develop problem solving skills through practice and understanding of the divideand-conquer and top-down approaches.

## 4. Form and manipulate collections of data (such as lists, dictionaries, tuples).

## 5. Learn the principles of object oriented programming in Java with the use of

classes, inheritance, polymorphism, interfaces, containers and design patterns - with
the goal of understanding code reuse and building scalable programs.
## 6. Be exposed to the SDLC (software development lifecycle) to understand how

software applications are authored in industry. This includes basic UML usage and
design concepts.

A+: 100%
Grading Scale A: 93-99%
A-: 90-92%
B+: 87-89%
B: 83-86%
B-: 80-82%
C+: 77-79%
C: 73-76%
C-: 70-72%

Course Policies & Activities: A typical week in this course will have several activities spread through
### Expectations the week, as listed below:

## 1. Videos & Self-assessments: There is a significant part of course-content

provided in the form of videos that you must watch before coming to the class
each week. This will help us spend the class-time more effectively on Q&A,
code-review, and labwork. You are expected to complete the weekly selfassessment. You will get two attempts for self-assessments. The higher of the
two scores will be considered for grading. This must be completed each week
before Sunday midnight.
## 2. Class Quiz (CQ): There are 10 short multiple-choice quizzes through the

semester. Top 8 scores will be considered for your final grade.
## 3. Lab assignments: There are 9 lab-exercises through the semester. Each labexercise is a short programming problem related to a topic discussed in the

previous class. For lab assignments, you will submit a Java program before the
end of the lab. Top 8 scores will be considered for your final grade. You can
discuss general subjects about the lab problem with me, TAs or your classmates
during the lab time, but you cannot discuss implementation level details. Unless
specified otherwise, you will need to submit your lab-solution within the class
time to be graded on full score. In case of any delay in submission beyond this,
you may submit within the extended time specified on Canvas for 75% of the
score, provided your submission is complete and correct.
## 4. Homework: There are 3 homework assignments. Top 2 scores will be considered

for your final grade.
## 5. Mid-Terms: There are 3 mid-term exams during the semester comprising

questions and programming test. Top 2 will be considered for your final grade.

The mid-term format will be similar to the Labs except that you cannot consult
with anyone.
## 6. Final Exam: The format of final exam is similar to mid-term exams but may be

longer, and is mandatory.

No late submission for exams, quizzes and prereq test.

Others
## 7. Class Attendance: Labs, quizzes, and exams require your presence in the class. If

you miss any lab / quiz / exam, it will be adjusted as the lowest score. No
makeup lab / quiz / exam will be accepted unless there is an emergency, in which
case a documented evidence may be required. Job interviews do not count as an
emergency. You need to be present in-person in class to take the quizzes, labs,
and exams. Attempts to take them from outside the class without instructor’s
written permission will be considered as integrity violation and will be dealt with
as per university policies.
## 8. Grade Disputes: Grade disputes, if any, must be reported to the TA or the

instructor within one week after grade distribution.

Plagiarism &
### Academic Dishonesty, Cheating and Plagiarism

Cheating Notice
Students are subject to Carnegie Mellon University’s policies on academic integrity.

You are responsible for being familiar with the university standard for academic
honesty and plagiarism. Please see the CMU Student Handbook for information.

In our course, there is no group assignment, and all work is individual. All your
submissions must be your work.

For our course, cheating means “submitting, without proper attribution, any
computer code that is directly traceable to the computer code written by another
person.” Copying from any source without citation, sharing your work with other
students, or copying from other students will be considered as cheating and
plagiarism and will be addressed according to the university policies at
http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/.

In general, you can use any code from the textbook and lecture notes. Other than the
code you may take from textbook and lecture notes, all code you submit must be
written by you.

You are welcome to use generative AI tools (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this class
for certain deliverables as stated below. Although you can use them in your learning
and in getting help while working on your deliverables, you cannot copy generated
code from those tools and submit as your own. When working on your course
deliverables, always keep in mind the following statement from CMU academic
integrity policy at https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html: “In any manner of presentation, it is the responsibility of each student
to produce [their] own original academic work.”
If you are in doubt on whether to use a material in your assignment or how to use it,
please consult me first.

For self-assessments: You may collaborate with classmates on understanding the
subjects. You may use lecture, online and AI resources.

For class quizzes: No collaboration is allowed. Do not use any resource while taking
the quizzes. Do not try to run the supplied code in the quizzes.

For labs: While you can seek help from your classmates in labs for clarifications and
debugging, you cannot copy their code and submit as your own. You may use
lecture, online and AI resources.

For homework assignments: You may discuss homework problems with classmates,
after you have made a serious effort in trying the homework on your own. You can
use ideas from the literature (with proper citation). You may use lecture, online and
AI resources.

For exams: No collaboration is allowed. You may use lecture, online and AI
resources.

To deter and detect plagiarism, tools are used in this class.

Course Policies &
Course Etiquette
Expectations
I expect all the students to observe polite conduct in the classroom. Specifically,
please pay attention to the following:
### *  No cell phone use during the class

### *  No random comings and goings

### *  Stay awake

### *  No recording of the classroom activities

### *  If you are in doubt about proper course etiquette, contact me in person or via

email
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition
of concepts, presentation format, and accuracy of information. Having done business
in countries that use languages other than English, we understand that the use of an
unfamiliar language can result in unusual word choices or grammatical errors that
are not critical to the overall understanding of the information. Therefore, we will
take into account your need to function in a language that may be unfamiliar to you.

We will provide feedback as appropriate if we feel that language or grammar you
have used in assignments would be best if it were configured in a different way.

Accommodations Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to
for Students with educational opportunities for all students. CMU and your instructors are committed
Disabilities to your success and to supporting Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as
amended and the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general
no individual who is otherwise qualified shall be excluded from participation in, be
denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity,
solely by reason of having a disability.

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability
Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with
me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with
the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu
Classroom In order to attend class meetings in person, all students are expected to abide by all
Expectations behaviors indicated in A Tartan’s Responsibility, including any timely updates based
Related to on the current conditions.

COVID-19
In terms of specific classroom expectations, whenever the requirement to wear a
facial covering is in effect on campus, students are expected to wear a facial
covering throughout class. If you do not comply, you will be referred to the Office

of Community Standards and Integrity for follow up, which could include student
conduct action.

Take Care of Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising,
Yourself avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than
later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or
feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922
and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to
a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the
support that can help.

Course Schedule / Topical Outline: (Subject to change as needed)
## Week Dates Topic Sunday Monday Wednesday Homework

Due Dates
## Week 1 Aug 26, Intro Videos + Intro Lab setup and

28 SA1 practice
## Week 2 Sep 2, 4 Data Types* Videos + NO CLASS Prereq test

SA2
Labor Day
## Week 3 Sep 9, Data types, program Videos + CQ1 Lab 1

11 flow* SA3
## Week 4 Sep 16, Classes and objects* Videos + CQ2 Lab 2

18 SA4
## Week 5 Sep 23, Inheritance* Videos + CQ3 Exam 1 HW1 Due

### 25 SA5 Sep 29

## Week 6 Sep 30, Encapsulation* Videos + CQ4 Lab 3

Oct 2 SA6
## Week 7 Oct 7, 9 Polymorphism* Videos + CQ5 Lab 4

SA7

### Fall Oct 14- NA NA NA NA

Break 18
## Week 8 Oct 21, Java FX Videos + CQ6 Lab 5

23 SA8
## Week 9 Oct 28, Collections (Indexed)* Videos + Exam 2

Oct 30 SA9
## Week Nov 4, 6 Collections (Hashed)* Videos + CQ7- Lab 6 (Indexed) HW2 Due

### 10 SA10 Collections Nov 10

## Week Nov 11, Exceptions* + IO Videos + CQ8- Lab 7 (Hashed)

### 11 13 SA11 Exceptions

## Week Nov 18 Exam Exam 3 NO CLASS

Thanksgiving
## Week Nov 25, Multithreading* Videos + CQ- Lab 8 HW3 Due

### 13 27 SA12/13 Multithreading Dec 1

## Week Dec 2, 4 Reflection Videos + CQ10 Lab 9

14 SA14 (Multithreading)
*included in final exam
For final exam data, refer to https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/current-students/final-exam