# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Syllabus, 90, TA, class, Canvas, this class, things, Heinz, 25%
**Document Length**: 1911 words

---

# Syllabus
Intermediate Economic Analysis, 90-709
Heinz College
Carnegie Mellon University
Fall, 2024
Professor Koenig
1 Basic Information
Class Meetings Mo, We 2:00-3:20 pm, HBH 1204
TA Sessions TBC
Instructor Felix Koenig
HBH 2202
fkoenig@cmu.edu
### Instructor Office Hours TBC

# TA TBC

### TA Office Hours TBC

Graders TBC
### Textbook Microeconomics, 9th Edition, by Jeffrey M. Perloff

Boston: Pearson/Addison-Wesley, 2022
You can purchase this in any format and previous editions
are also fine. The library has copies too. A scanned version of the book
is available through the library (here).

Website Go to http://canvas.cmu.edu
and navigate to course site from there.

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 2
2 Course Description
This is a course in economics relevant to public policy and management for those who already
have some familiarity and facility with basic economics. In this course we will focus on microeconomics, which is the study of individuals, firms, and markets.
### Upon successful completion of this course a student will:

### *  Be familiar with microeconomic concepts and analysis that are essential to good

managerial and policy decisions.
*  Be able to use economic analysis in evaluating public policy issues.
*  Be able to apply these concepts and analysis in other courses taken at Heinz, e.g.,
Management Science, Financial Analysis, Budgeting and Management Control Systems,
Negotiation, Public Policy and the Internet, Systems Synthesis, etc.
*  Be able to critically evaluate economic arguments in public policy debates. You should
be able to understand and critically evaluate articles and op-eds about economics in the
New York Times, Wall Street Journal, etc. You will be able to impress and amaze friends
and family with your deep insights and critical understanding of current economic events
when such discussions arise over the cheese dip or arguing with your Uncle Edgar.
3 Prerequisites
Some reasonable familiarity with basic economics and graphs and basic algebra. Usually a
course in principles of economics will suffice.
4 Evaluation
The course grade will be based on the following: three equally weighted in-class examinations
(25% each), and homework (25%).

Homework assignments will occur regularly and will be announced in class. The assignments
are due at the on Friday at the beginning of recitation. The assignments are typically posted
on Canvas 1 week before the due date. Late assignments will receive no credit. The lowest
homework score will not count towards the course grade (including late or missed
assignments). For the avoidance of doubt, this is our only policy to acommodate missed
assignments (we do not offer extensions, make-up assignments, or similar arrangements). I
advise against missing an assignment unless you really have to, you only get to drop one
assignment grade.

All homeworks and exams will be posted on Canvas and will be turned in via Gradescope.

The Dean’s guideline for grades in this class is a class average of 3.33–3.42 (B++).

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 3
### 5 Lectures and TA Sessions

All class lectures and TA sessions will be in-person. You are expected to attend and email the
TA about extenuating circumstances if you have to miss a session. We aim to record lectures,
please let the TA know if you would like to object to being recorded. The recordings will be
available on Canvas. You will not be able to join the class via zoom.
6 Missing Class
Attendance in class is expected. Students sometime miss class during the semester due to
illness, religious holidays, family events, or other reasons. I am not concerned if you miss one
or two classes during the course of the semester. If you miss more than one or two classes,
please let me know. I suggest you arrange with a fellow student to obtain notes for any
lectures you miss. Feel free to contact me or the TAs if you’d like help catching up.
### 7 Academic Honesty & Generative AI

All assignments in this class are to be done independently (aka without help from students or
AI), without any consultation with anyone else. Deviation from this will be considered
academic dishonesty and will be dealt with according to Heinz and CMU protocol.

You may use generative AI programs like ChatGPT during the brainstorming and idea
generation phase for assignments. However, doing so cannot be considered a substitute for
traditional research. Generative AI programs rely on predictive models to generate content
that may appear correct, but has been shown to sometimes be incomplete, inaccurate, taken
without attribution from other sources, and / or biased. Any information generated by an AI
program should be cited like any other reference material. You are ultimately responsible for
the content of the information you submit. However, you may not attempt to pass off any
work generated by an AI program as your own.
### 8 Children in Class

Some of you have child care responsibilities. Please feel free to bring your child with you if
doing so facilitates attending class. Children are welcome - we will accommodate them if you
bring them.

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 4
9 Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage
you to use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and discuss your needs
with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability
and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### 10 Statement of Support for Students’ Health &

Wellbeing
I hope you will enjoy your time in grad school. Undoubtedly there will be stressful times. The
University Provost provides the following thoughts for students. I consider them important.

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family
member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922 Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226 If the situation is life threatening,
call the police On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323 Off campus: 911
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on
campus that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment
(cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu).
### 11 Statement on Diversity and Inclusivity

My goal is that this class be a productive and positive learning experience for all students,
that students’ learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that
students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit. It is my intent to
present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability,
age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. Your suggestions are encouraged and
appreciated. Please let me know ways to improve the effectiveness of the course for you
personally or for other students or student groups. In addition, if any of our class meetings

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 5
conflict with your religious events, please let me know so that we can make arrangements for
you.
12 How to Succeed in this Class
There are a number of things that you can do that will help you succeed in this class.
*  Attend the lectures at the assigned class time.
*  Review the lecture slides and your notes within 24 hours of a lecture.
*  Attend the TA sessions.
### *  Review the week’s material from lecture before the TA session, and identify questions

you have, so you can ask them during the TA session.
*  Work problems. Economics is best learned by working problems. The homework is
designed to help you learn the material. In addition, it gives you practice with the kind
of problems that will appear on the exams.
*  Do not limit yourself to the homework problems. The textbook has questions at the back
of every chapter. Feel free to ask me or the TA for suggestions of problems to work. In
addition, the text has worked problems in each chapter, and many examples throughout.
### *  Rather than simply reading the textbook, sit down with a pad of paper and a pen or

pencil and write things out as your read/review them in the textbook. You will learn
things better and more effectively than if you simply read the material.
*  Write down things you don’t understand and questions that you have. This will help you
focus and make the best use of the TA sessions and office hours.
*  Review the answers to homeworks and exams, even if you received a high score. Sit
down with paper and pencil and work through them.
*  Don’t hesitate to ask for help. Go to the TA sessions with questions or things you can’t
figure out. Come to my office hours or the TA’s office hours. Make an appointment to
see me or the TA if you need more time or if the office hours don’t work for you.

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 6
13 Draft Schedule
The class schedule below is tentative and will not be followed exactly.

Date Topic Reading
## Week 1

Mo 8/26 Introduction Ch. 1
### Review of Supply and Demand Chs. 2,3

W 8/28 Review, cont’d.

F 8/30 Review, cont’d.
## Week 2

### Mo 9/2 No Class - Labor Day

### We 9/4 TA Session

F 9/6 Off
## Week 3

### M 9/9 Add/Drop Deadline

### Mo 9/9 Perfect Competition Ch. 9

We 9/11 “ “
F 9/13 TA Session
## Week 4

Mo 9/16 Perfect Competition Ch. 8
We 9/18 “ “
F 9/20 TA Session
## Week 5

Mo 9/23 Review Session
We 9/25 1st Exam
F 9/27 TBC
## Week 6

Mo 9/30 Monopoly Ch. 11

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 7
Date Topic Reading
We 10/2 “ “
F 10/4 TA Session
## Week 7

Mo 10/7 Monopoly, cont’d.

We 10/9 Pricing, Ch. 12
F 10/11 TA Session
## Week 8

Mo 10/14 No Class - Fall Break
We 10/16 No Class - Fall Break
F 10/18 No Class - Fall Break
## Week 9

Mo 10/21 Oligopoly Ch. 13
We 10/23 Oligopoly
F 10/25 TA Session
## Week 10

Mo 10/28 Game Theory Ch. 14
We 10/30 Game Theory cont’d
F 11/1 TA Session

Syllabus 90-709 Fall 2024 8
Date Topic Reading
## Week 11

Mo 11/4 Externalities & Public Goods Ch. 18
We 11/6 2nd Exam
F 11/8 TA Session
## Week 12

Mo 11/11 Externalities & Public Goods
We 11/13 Uncertainty Ch. 17
F 11/15 TA Session
## Week 13

Mo 11/18 Uncertainty
We 11/20 Asymmetric Information
F 11/22 TA Session
## Week 14

Mo 11/25 Asymmetric Information Ch. 19
We 11/27 No Class - Thanksgiving Break
F 11/29 No Class - Thanksgiving Break
## Week 15

Mo 12/2 Contracts Ch. 20
We 12/4 Contracts
F 12/6 TA Session
Finals Week
12/9 - 12/13 3rd Exam