# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, Canvas, Blockchain, questions, students, plagiarism, AI, Bitcoin, CMU
**Document Length**: 7262 words

---

# 95-410/810 Blockchain Fundamentals
### Heinz College, Carnegie Mellon University

Instructor: Samuel Perl (sperl@andrew.cmu.edu)
TA: TBD
Term: Fall 2024, Mini 1
This class meets IN PERSON - Mondays 6:30pm - 9:20pm in HBH 2003
August 26, 2024 through October 11, 2024
Course Description
This course will be on the fundamentals of Blockchain and Blockchain Technology. After
covering fundamentals we will look at some applied uses and also criticisms. The best known
example of Blockchain Technology in wide use today is as the storage and transaction
mechanism for the cryptocurrency Bitcoin. There are many other cryptocurrency networks that
also use similar technology including Ethereum and Algorand. We will also use historical
examples, key concepts, theory vs. practice, and examples of proposed and implemented
solutions to help explain Blockchain Fundamentals. A focus for the class will be on the
challenges of a given problem area and the decisions made during implementation. The history
of the design and research process that ultimately led to a ‘successful’ implementation for a
cryptocurrency is decades long. Bitcoin represents an elegant technical solution to a series of
long posed problems which we can use to learn from. Its history as a solution builds upon many
years of previous academic research some of which we will also explore during class. For even
more specifics, see Narayanan, Arvind, and Jeremy Clark. "Bitcoin's academic pedigree."
Communications of the ACM 60.12 (2017): 36-45.

Whether these technical solutions (or similar ones) can be applied to other industry problems
beyond cryptocurrency remains an interesting and ongoing research and implementation
problem. After covering Blockchain technology fundamentals, we will explore applications of
Blockchain and Distributed Ledger Technology and focusing on current and potential uses
beyond that cryptocurrency.

Textbooks
We will use a variety of books, articles, journal papers, sources, videos, demos, and interactive
materials in the course. You are not required to purchase any text to have access to all of the
course reading assignments or optional materials.

There is a textbook on cryptocurrency which we will read from titled Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency
Technologies. You can download a free pre-publication version of the book at
http://bitcoinbook.cs.princeton.edu/. You are not required to own a hard copy. The book website
also contains a large number of interesting Blockchain related links which you are encouraged
to explore.

Other reading materials will come from Journals, Magazines, or Newspaper articles that CMU
has online access to. We may occasionally use chapter excerpts from other books that will be
made available to you on Canvas. All materials made available are only for use in this class.

Learning Objectives
Upon successful completion of the course, each student will show tangible evidence of growth
and maturity in the following areas:
## 1. Be able to state core blockchain concepts, the benefits, and the limitations of blockchain

technologies.
## 2. Be able to state the key differentiators for blockchain from other technology systems.

## 3. Understand the technical underpinnings of blockchain technology at sufficient depth to

perform analysis of the impacts of certain implementation decisions in proposals.
## 4. Understand relevant legal, ethical, and privacy issues around blockchains and how they

might impact policy and actions of organizations or individuals.
## 5. Apply various blockchain concepts to analyze examples, proposals, case studies, and

preliminary blockchain system design discussions.
## 6. Make decisions about the use (or not) of blockchain technology in systems, and support

decisions with relevant arguments.
## 7. Perform and defend blockchain analysis of real world systems and present relevant

findings and arguments in a structured, logical and compelling manner.
## 8. Determine real world challenges that blockchain technologies may assist in solving; or

explain why they do not.
### Assessments and Final Project

### This course with consist of the following major assessments:

Homework Assignment 1 - Explanation of key concepts in your own words
You will be asked to write a short essay to explain the major concepts of blockchains. You may
supplement your writing with drawings or pictures and contrast blockchains with other kinds of
technology. You will also be asked to think of your own anecdotes to help explain blockchain
concepts, key challenges, and solutions to someone who is unfamiliar with the underlying
technical elements. Assignment details will be posted on canvas.
### Homework Assignment 2 - Challenge Problem Sources, Outline

In your final project, you will be asked to choose a challenge problem and analyze how a
blockchain might be used to solve it. Your assignment in homework 2 will be to choose a
challenge problem and clearly articulate why it is a challenge, explain the particulars of the
problem, attempt to explain the current state solutions and why they may or may not be an
improvement over a blockchain. You will also identify a minimum of 4 sources that you will use
in your final project. You will write an outline for each of the sections in your final project.

Final Project
After you have chosen your challenge problem, you should articulate the details of that
challenge further, and explain the challenge that you think a blockchain system might help to
solve. In short, you will explore the challenge and articulate the parts of the challenge that make
it hard.

Explain why a blockchain might be a possible solution for this problem - and what benefits are
derived in the case that blockchain technology would be used over other alternatives (to include
a private database, or an intermediary company that stores data and helps perform
‘transactions’ for others). You should pose a list of questions to yourself on why blockchain
might be a good fit for the problem you have chosen. You should also explain what changes,
design decisions, or tweaks you would need to make to your proposed blockchain solution so
that it would appropriately fit your problem.

Each major assessment and its due date will be posted in more detail to Canvas.

In addition to these assessments, you will be asked to answer questions on the reading and
lectures throughout the course. These short assignment questions will also be posted to
canvas. These minor assignments will typically ask for a written paragraph or two, or will ask a
series of questions each of which will ask for short answers (eg. 1-2 sentences).

All assessments will be conducted through Canvas. Class discussion will be in person and via
or the class Discussion board which is hosted on Canvas.

Academic Integrity
Carnegie Mellon is a self-governing institution that requires ethical behavior of its administration,
faculty, staff and students that goes beyond simple compliance with the law. Respect for these
requirements creates a moral authority for the university to insist upon appropriate behavior.

This authority is essential to the accomplishment of the university's mission. Integrity as
described in this statement is a defining feature of the university community's high expectations
for the conduct of its members.

Academic Integrity is a core CMU value, and as a member of the CMU community, it is
important that the work you turn in for this class is wholly your own. As your instructor, I will
strive to ensure that you develop the necessary knowledge and skills to meet the learning
objectives for this class, just as it is your task to put in the effort to complete the work and ask

for help if you need it. In this hybrid/remote environment, you might have questions about what
is and is not acceptable. I will attempt to provide resources clarifying what cheating, plagiarism,
and unauthorized assistance look like and how to avoid them. You should always refer to the
CMU resources on academic integrity if you have any questions or concerns -
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic/statement-on-academicintegrity.html#statement
In particular, for this class, if you use language in written submitted work you MUST
encapsulate it in quotes AND cite the source of the work. These are not your words and
you must cite all references. We will be using software in the class to identify sequences
of words and statements that have been submitted elsewhere. You will need to ensure
that you follow correct CITATION guidance which will be provided on the first day of this
course. This applies to all assignments, all projects, and all submitted graded work.

This class is intended to make you think and to write down your thoughts. Your work will
often rely upon the thoughts and words of others. You MUST cite and acknowledge these
works while also avoiding heavily quoting from material for the bulk of your written
assignments. We are looking for your own work, not a rehash of the work done by others. As
you discuss and build or apply a point made by another author, you may need to state their
point in their words. You MUST QUOTE THEM AND CITE THEM. If you do not, your
submission can be considered plagiarism as you are indicating by not citing them that
the words and the sequence they are put in are your own.

The consequences of plagiarism can be an academic referral. Please avoid plagiarism or any
type of cheating in this class. You may of course ask questions and ask for help from the
instructor if this is unclear. Each student is responsible for handing in their own work. For any
assignment found to be the partial result of cheating or plagiarism, your grade for that
assignment will be a Zero and may result in academic referral, and/or a failing grade in the
course.

Cheating includes inappropriate collaboration among students on an assignment. Plagiarism
also includes copying sequences of words from external sources with or without alteration and
failing to encapsulate them in quotes and/or cite their source. You must also properly cite
sources of ideas, sentences, and to place any sequences of words from others in any quotes
that you choose use in your work. You should also not overly rely upon quotes from others for
assignments where you original work is assigned including all Homework and all Projects.

Canvas contains very specific examples and guidance on how to avoid plagiarism. You Must
review the canvas page on plagiarism, citing external sources, and more prior to HW1.

Any violations may result in penalties including a zero for the assignment, or failing grade in the
course. If students are found to be collaborating without prior approval, BOTH will pay the
penalty regardless of who originated the work.

Generative AI
It is not outright banned, but I encourage you to know that it must be used
correctly in order to help you accomplish learning or to perform highly in
class assignments.

Universities around the country are evaluating the benefits and drawbacks of students’ use of
generative AI technologies in the classroom. Regardless of what universities eventually do,
Generative AI will be a tool in the post-academic world that many of you will be inhabiting in
your professional careers. I will offer some key thoughts and references on Generative AI here
and suggest that at this time in is in your great benefit to avoid the use of Generative AI in this
(and other classes) in nearly all circumstances.
### Our official policy on the use of Generative AI in this course is:

All reading assignments, homework assignments, and final project require your own original
work. This means that if the minimum word count on an assignment is 1000, the way to interpret
that is for you to write “1000 original words from your own head”. There are research backed
learning outcome improvements when you write your own words such as “Frequent writing in
courses has been shown to improve content retention, critical analysis, literacy, and, not
surprisingly, writing outcomes.”1 Writing improves learning. If you ask a machine to write for
you, I promise that it will not write as well or as originally as you could have yourself. This
applies to BOTH native English speakers and non-native English speakers. The author Ted
Chiang says this about AI writing:2
“Obviously, no one can speak for all writers, but let me make the argument that starting
with a blurry copy of unoriginal work isn’t a good way to create original work. If you’re a
writer, you will write a lot of unoriginal work before you write something original. And the
time and effort expended on that unoriginal work isn’t wasted; on the contrary, I would
suggest that it is precisely what enables you to eventually create something original. The
hours spent choosing the right word and rearranging sentences to better follow
one another are what teach you how meaning is conveyed by prose.

Having students write essays isn’t merely a way to test their grasp of the material;
it gives them experience in articulating their thoughts. If students never have to
write essays that we have all read before, they will never gain the skills needed to write
something that we have never read.”
1 Source: https://www.jjay.cuny.edu/how-use-writing-your-classes-improve-student-learning Accessed
August 15, 2023
2 Source: https://www.newyorker.com/tech/annals-of-technology/chatgpt-is-a-blurry-jpeg-of-the-web
Accessed August 15, 2023

The article contains many other good points on how LLMs are not going to improve your
understanding over other sources, and they will not generate better written words about
even simple topics than you do.

If you choose to use Generative AI to generate words, you MUST cite all words that are
produced by the tool as being not written by you. You must put the output of the AI in quotes
and you must cite their source as being AI generated. If the text is inaccurate, vague, poorly
worded, includes hallucinations, or are generic (and so do not add any new ideas to the reader)
your grade will be reflective of these errors.

Executives in industry will be treating any professional writing that you do in a similar manner. I
promise you that any executive who asks you what the fundamental ideas in Blockchain
technology are and your opinion on why those might be important can surely type that same
question into a generative AI model, and can probably even do some minimal prompt
engineering to get a result similar to what you would get with your input. What they would not
get, and what they want is YOUR opinion, thoughts, unique ideas, and perspective on the
question. They will use your input to make key future business decisions about what to do with
the technology that runs their business. Savvy Business Executives will not be asking AI
nor trusting its opinion on the same question that they ask you.
### In summary:

### *  If you want to learn and to achieve a high performing grade in this class, complete

writing assignments yourself. The learning during the writing process is why we do
writing assignments instead of exams. Essays are much more time consuming to grade
for instructors than exams, but students learn more through the process of writing things
down. They also learn more about both themselves and the material when they write
(including revising, re-writing, polishing/editing, revising again, and proof-reading). These
are communication skills you will be expected to perform in your professional capability
regardless of what field you are in.
### *  You must follow the academic integrity guidelines of the university and of this

class. If you use one of these generative AI tools to develop content for an assignment,
you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work. In practice, cutting and
pasting content from any source without citation is plagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasing
content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any
generative AI tool without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism.

The university’s policy on plagiarism applies to all uncited or improperly cited use of
work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a
generative AI.
### Lastly, you may not use generative AI programs to:

### *  Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component

without quotations and a citation
### *  Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation

### *  Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself

### *  Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following

provided guidance
### *  Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work,

when it is not
AI generated content does not count toward assignment minimums such as word counts for
original words.

Finally, it is important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users
with incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate
contradictory statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and
can sometimes integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate
outputs. Image generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

While you may technical use these tools in the work you create for this class (as will be the case
in real life as well), it is important to note that you understand you are ultimately responsible
for the content that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive,
plagiarized, or incorrect will be penalized.

Grade Evaluation Method
### 15% - Course Reading, Comprehension, Assignment Question & Answer

### 15% - Homework Assignment 1

### 15% - Homework Assignment 2

### 40% - Final Project

### 10% - Class Discussion & Participation

05% - Professionalism
Grading Scale
### 100 - 98 A+

97-92 A
91-90 A89-88 B+
87-82 B
81-80 B79-78 C+
77-72 C
71-70 CGrade Distribution
Heinz School guidelines will be used in deciding on the overall grade distribution. However, I
grade individual assignments on an absolute scale. If every student does well in the class, each
will get an A+ regardless of the recommended grading scale. The same holds true on the other
end of the scale.

Late Submissions. Make Up Work?

Normally, I do not accept late work without prior arrangement. Due dates for every
assignment are provided on the course syllabus and course schedule (and posted in Canvas).

Unless otherwise stated, assignments are due on those days. However, I recognize that
sometimes “life happens.” Remember that your other fellow students will have already
submitted the work on time. At the instructors discretion (and a penalty may be applicable), they
may attempt to work with your based upon your circumstances.

Late Final Projects
Late Final Projects submitted up to 24 hours after the due date and time will only be eligible for
80% of the maximum number of points allotted. Since Final Projects are the largest portion of
your final grade, submitting them even a few hours late can drop your final score by nearly a full
letter grade. I highly encourage you to submit Final Projects before the final due date.

Assignments submitted more than 24 hours after the due date will not be accepted.
### Attendance, Attending Late, Absence

Class participation and discussion comprises approximately 10% of your final grade. Your
attendance in each class counts as a partial score. The rest of the partial score will be
determined by your participation in class. The class is designed to have students attempt to
reason about answers to questions and you are highly encouraged to ask questions. If you have
a question, someone else probably does to, and you will are being graded on participation as
well.

Attendance is not typically tracked on Canvas until the end of term. You may see your % total
score jump down if you are not attending class regularly, are late, or are not present during
attendance. It is YOUR responsibility to contact the instructor about being late or absent or not
present during attendance. If you do it days or weeks after it happened, there will not be any
opportunity to change scores.

Attending Late – We do take attendance in class. If you come late, it also means that you were
not participating in discussions, asking or answering questions with your other peers. A few
minutes one time is one thing, but anything more and you must email the instructor before the
class, or the day after, and may need to perform a makeup assignment depending upon how
late you were that day. Multiple lates in a row begins to approach issues with professionalism
which is also part of your grade. If you have a very extenuating circumstance that requires you
to always be late or leave early, you must discuss this with the instructor at the beginning of the
semester. Being late applies to both remote classes and in person classes.

Missing Class – Life does happen and there are emergencies. If you have an emergency such
as a medical event and need to miss class, you need to contract the instructor in advance, or
when you are soon able to following your situation. It is my policy to record class, so if you do
this we can usually arrange for a makeup assignment. If you know that you will have a more

disruptive situation for attending class on time, please email the instructor right away. Since the
class is a mini and we only meet once a week, missing class can be a significant amount of
material.

Canvas Discussion board. For both in person and remote offerings, we will also have a
discussion board thread for each week of class on canvas. You can make a post which is
typically 1-2 paragraphs with a reflection, question, or other kind of engagement with the class
material that week. The best posts are those that show you thought about how the concepts we
discuss in class apply to events or ideas you have in your own life, or those of others you know.

Participation for Remote classes. This class is sometimes taught as a remote offering.

Participation in remote classes is generally the same, although sometimes over Zoom it can be
harder. Asking questions in the chat is usually ok, but the preferred method is to raise your hand
and turn on your camera. From my many experiences delivering this class on Zoom; students
with their cameras on typically have higher participation in the class.

If you are confused, your confusion may also be shared by other students so please ask the
instructor a question. Many of the topics we are covering in class can have multiple viewpoints.

This can cause confusion even among professionals in the field. Many professionals can have a
difference of opinion on a given issue. This class is an attempt to help you participate in such
conversations using the framework, language, and skills of practicing analysis of blockchain
technologies. Asking questions and attempting to answer the questions of others is an important
learning step and counts toward class participation.

Please do your best to attend, and if given advanced notice of an absence or late, the instructor
may provide opportunities for reasonable asynchronous work. This will generally include
watching the small parts of lecture that you miss, reviewing the handouts and slides, and
performing an assignment of make up work such as posting to the discussion board. If you
become ill for a few days or encounter an emergency situation, contact me in advance or as
soon as possible and we will make arrangements for you to make up the material that we
covered in class using a short assignment. If you contact the instructor after a late or absence
with an emergency situation there will not be any makeup assignment. Makeup assignments are
used very sparingly (such as one time) without an official accommodation.

Again, if you are ill, please contact the instructor prior to the beginning of class and we will make
arrangements for you to make up the material that we covered in class. Do not come to class if
you are ill.
### In-Class Participation & the Canvas Discussion Board

This class is designed to encourage in-class discussion, post reading reflection (writing), and
pre-class prep (writing). We will leverage both discussion in person and we will also leverage
the discussion board as part of grading to show class participation in addition to remote

sessions. This does not mean that a single comment on the discussion board will lead to a
justification for a better grade. This class asks for (and grades for participation are based
on) sustained engagement and participation through class and/or through the discussion
board.
## Discussion board - The discussion board will serve as both a mechanism for prep work for class

(e.g., you may be asked to post questions that you have about the assigned reading or for an
upcoming guest speaker) or as post-class work e.g., you are encouraged to post a list of
takeaways from today’s class session, thoughts on their applicability to your own life or industry,
and more.

You will also be asked to answer questions about the readings during class, but since we have
limited in-person time together, the discussion board is another option for showing your
participation through repeated and sustained posts.

Here are other ways you can show class participation and reading comprehension on the
discussion boards:
## 1. After you have competed any pre-class reading, post areas that did not make sense to

you. Reading assignments will usually be reflective of basic topics, relevant research,
current events, or new results on blockchain concepts that are directly related to the
material being covered in class. You can post personal reflections about these.
## 2. Participate in class discussions including attempting to answer questions from the

instructor and from other students, performing active listening, and asking pertinent
questions of your own. In class, pay attention and after class post a written reflection,
attempting to clarify information that you do or do not understand (in class or after class
on the discussion board), and attempting to summarize the information you have heard
or read about.
## 3. Write a post trying to relate the concepts you are learning about in class that week to

specific examples in your own life and sharing your own thoughts and experiences on
these with the class.

Diversity
We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community.

Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race,
color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion,
creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities,
along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and

staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not
only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice.

We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of
our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces
these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional.

They contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the
university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or
hostile treatment on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment
of the incident or after the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the
following resources:
- Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
- Report-It online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net username: tartans password:
plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following
actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform
our campus climate to be more equitable and just.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office,
I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester
as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If
you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not
yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Student Wellness - Take Care of Yourself

We want you to succeed in this class. If you are finding that this is a struggle, know that you are
not alone. If you are having issues, please ask for help. All of us benefit from support during
times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many resources available to help you in the
Heinz College, on the CMU campus, and among your instructors.

If you or anyone you know is experiencing academic stress, difficult life events, or feel anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services
(CaPS) is available to help. Call 412.268.2922 and visit the website
https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/ . Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to support that can help.

### Use of Technology in the Classroom

Research has shown that divided attention is detrimental to learning, so I encourage you to
close any windows not directly related to what we are doing while you are in class. Please turn
off your phone notifications and limit other likely sources of technology disruption, so you can
fully engage with the material, each other, and me. This will create a better learning
environment for everyone.

For in person class you will not need to bring your laptop.

See the professionalism section below for guidance on the use of devices in class. You will be
expected to act and behave as in a professional setting. You may use a laptop to take notes
during class if that is your preference.

Professionalism
All students (and especially graduate students) are expected to conduct themselves
with respect toward each other. This includes showing up on time, paying attention
during class, and not distracting others during class. It can be helpful to image the class
as similar to a business meeting where you are expected to follow along, be ready to
add new thoughts and idea, and to give your opinion on certain issues to executives at
a moment’s notice.

Class Participation includes your active participation in discussions. If you are not
answering a question, or asking a question, please try to focus your attention on the
person that is speaking. Discourse on any topic can sometimes become heated.

Students will be expected to act and behave as if they are in a professional setting.

Class Recordings
For this course, I will be recording class sessions and making them available to you for
your personal, educational use. Recordings of class sessions are covered under the
Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and must not be shared with
anyone outside class. The purpose of these recordings is so students in this course
(and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions. Feel free
to use the recordings if you would like to review something we discussed in class or if
you are temporarily unable to attend class.

Disclaimer: I will do my best to record via Zoom so that students in this course (and only
students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions. However, for inperson classes, the professors attention will be focused upon students and discussions

in the classroom. Sometimes recordings may not be complete. I will make the
recordings available on Canvas after each class session.

Help with Papers and Projects from the Student Academic
Success Center (SASC)
Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as well as group
workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts including thesisdriven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design, advanced
research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data
visualization, and team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate
students from any discipline at CMU. Visit the Student Academic Success Center (SASC)
website at https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/index.html to schedule an appointment (inperson or video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or videos to strengthen
communication skills.

Food Insecurity
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on
campus that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:
Pantry Coordinator cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu or call 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)
### How to Succeed in This Class

## 1. Get started on the research project as soon as possible. Even just spending some time

in week 1 thinking about topics you may be interested in learning more about can make
a significant difference.
## 2. Complete the assigned readings for each week, if not before the class for which they are

assigned, then after that class and before the next.
## 3. Participate in class - see section on Class Participation for more specific tips.

## 4. Use office hours productively. Get feedback on outlines of your research reports,

suggestions for references, tips on homework or lab questions, and clarifications of
lecture materials. Make sure you are comfortable applying the concepts and lessons
learned from course case studies to new requirements or use cases.
## 5. Complete as much of the research project for the first draft as is possible. You can

provide as much of a draft as you like in HW2 and receive feedback in advance of your
final draft.
## 6. Use the SASC programs such as Communication Support. Many students who have used these

in the past have substantially improved their writing and communication skills on projects. These

skill translate directly into real-world job skills as well.

Appendix
### Draft Schedule and Reading Assignments

Note: The topics and list of reading and videos is subject to change. ALWAYS Check Canvas
for the latest updates including changes to the assigned weekly readings.
# Date Topics Reading/Videos
1 8-26 Introduction and Learning Narayanan, et al. Chapter 1
Objectives
### PKI & Digital Signature: Can you Crack the Code? A

Blockchain Overview
fascinating history of ciphers and cryptography by Ella
Schwartz illustrated by Lily Williams. Chapter 9 “Prime
### History and Origin of Blockchain

Time”. (PDF on Canvas)
(and Cryptocurrency)
Start of Technical Concepts of But how does bitcoin actually work
Blockchain Systems https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bBC-nXj3Ng4 (27
minutes)
### - Physical Ledger Technology

and Security
How secure is 256 bit security?
### - Digital Ledger Technology

https://youtu.be/S9JGmA5_unY (Video, YouTube 5
Digital Security Technology minutes)
### - Cryptographic Hash Functions

### - Digital Signatures

Decentralized networks and
technology (serverless)
(Optional) Supplemental Material
How Bitcoin Works in 5 Minutes (Video, YouTube, 5
minutes)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l9jOJk30eQs
The Eureka Moment that made bitcoin possible - Amy
Whitaker for WSJ (PDF)
Security engineering by Ross Anderson - Chapter 6
Cryptography
### SEv3-ch5-7sep Security Engineering Cryptography.pdf

### ● 5.2 Historical Background

### ● 5.3 Security Models

● 5.4 Symmetric crypto algorithms
## 5.6 Hash Functions

Create your own MD5 Hash Collisions
https://natmchugh.blogspot.com/2015/02/create-your-ownmd5-collisions.htm
The great chain of being sure about things (Article,
Economist)
https://www.economist.com/briefing/2015/10/31/the-greatchain-of-being-sure-about-things
The Money Myth by James Bridle (Article)
https://www.newstatesman.com/politics/2019/07/bitcoinand-the-money-myth
### 2 9 - 2 LABOR DAY, HOLIDAY, NO

# CLASS

3 9 - 9 How traditional Electronic Payment Narayanan et al. Chapter 2: How Bitcoin Achieves
Systems work Decentralization Pages 51 – 72
DLT Technical Concepts
### Haber and Stornetta - How to Time Stamp a Digital

### Continued:

Document (PDF)
### - Digital Ledgers

### - Distributed Networks and

Review a few pages of your choice from this website: How
Consensus
Does Bitcoin Work?l
### - Incentives, Mining Proof of

https://learnmeabitcoin.com/
Work,
### - Cryptosystems in practice

- 51% (and other) attacks Mining
### - Introduction to Smart Contracts (Video) Inside a Secret Chinese Bitcoin Mine (10 minutes)

### - Altcoins

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K8kua5B5K3I
Electricity Use
### Estimating Bitcoin Electricity Use: A Beginner’s Guide (By

Jonathan Koomey)
https://www.coincenter.org/estimating-bitcoin-electricityuse-a-beginners-guide/
(Optional) Supplemental Material
Narayanan et al. Chapter 3: Mechanics of Bitcoin (Page 75
- 98)

But how does bitcoin actually work? https://youtu.be/bBCnXj3Ng4 (video 26 min)
Back, Adam. "Hashcash-a denial of service countermeasure." (2002). http://www.hashcash.org/hashcash.pdf
Why I Wrote PGP by Phil Zimmerman (Article)
https://www.philzimmermann.com/EN/essays/WhyIWroteP
GP.html
Nakamoto “The White Paper”
(Article) Inside the Icelandic Facility Where Bitcoin Is Mined
https://www.wired.com/story/iceland-bitcoin-mining-gallery/
“Pieces of code that codify business logic. Store Rules,
### Verify Rules, Self-Execute.” Olga Mack

4 9 - 16 The Ethereum ‘Ecosystem’ Narayanan et al. Chapter 9: Bitcoin as a Platform pages
### - Smart Contracts Continued 237 - 247

### - Smart Contract Languages

(Solidity & Others) Narayanan et al. Chapter 10 (Altcoins): Ethereum and
### - Layer 2 and Payment Channel

### Smart Contracts 263 – 271

Networks (Lightning)
(Book Chapter) Blockchain and the Law - The Rule of
Code - Chapter 4 Smart Contracts as Legal Contracts (pdf)
(17 Pages)
(Video) How Smart Contracts Will Change the World | Olga
Mack | TEDxSanFrancisco
(17 minutes. Smart Contracts starts at about 6 minute
mark)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pA6CGuXEKtQ
### Layer 2, and the Lightning Network

https://dci.mit.edu/lightning-network
Optional
Illustrated guide to Ethereum
https://www.abra.com/resources/worlds-computer/

## Introduction to Solidity, the language of smart contracts on

Ethereum
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/introduction-to-solidity/
Solidity by example (voting)
https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.9/solidity-byexample.html
(Article) Introduction to Smart Contracts (Solidity. For
Developers)
https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/v0.8.9/introduction-to-smartcontracts.html
Some blockchain projects improve certain properties over
the bitcoin original design. One such type is a Payment
Channel Network and one example of such is the Bitcoin
Lightning Network. These networks may be susceptible to
new attack types as well.
[2007.09047] Exploiting Centrality: Attacks in Payment
Channel Networks with Local Routing
https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.09047
Decentralized Finance
### Crypto Banking and Decentralized Finance, Explained

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/05/us/politics/cryptocurre
ncy-explainer.html
And
https://ethereum.org/en/defi/
### 5 9 – 23 NFTs and Ethereum ERC-721 NFTs

Tokens *  NFTs, explained | MIT CSAIL
https://www.csail.mit.edu/news/nfts-explained
Stablecoins and other ERC-20
Or
Tokens
What are NFTs
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/03/18/tec
hnology/nft-guide.html
Begin discussion of Societal *  The untold story of the NFT boom
Impacts.
https://www.nytimes.com/2021/05/12/magazine/nft-
- The promise vs. the practice
art-crypto.html
### - Energy Usage

### - Crypto Exchanges

### - Cybersecurity Considerations Stablecoins

### - Illicit Content *  Stablecoins and the Future of Money

- Money laundering https://hbr.org/2021/08/stablecoins-and-the-futureof-money

### *  The Technology Underlying Stablecoins

https://nehanarula.org/2021/09/23/stablecoins.html
DeFi
### Crypto Banking and Decentralized Finance, Explained

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/05/us/politics/cryptocurre
ncy-explainer.html
Optional
Narayanan - ch. 6 Bitcoin and Anonymity, page 165 - 169
6.1 anonymity basics
Mining (Theory vs Practice)
### The Evolution of Bitcoin Hardware

https://michaeltaylor.org/papers/Taylor_Bitcoin_IEEE_Com
puter_2017.pdf
Illicit Content
Does regulation of illegal content need reconsideration in
light of blockchains? By Maurice Schellekens, International
### Journal of Law and Information Technology, Volume 27,

Issue 3, Autumn 2019, Pages 292–305,
https://academic.oup.com/ijlit/article/27/3/292/5601120
Energy Usage
### *  Cambridge Bitcoin Electricity Consumption Index

(CBECI) https://cbeci.org/
### *  Proof of Stake (PoS)

Energy consumption of the leading PoS DLTs?
http://blockchain.cs.ucl.ac.uk/blockchain-energyconsumption/
*  And https://spectrum.ieee.org/ethereum-plans-tocut-its-absurd-energy-consumption-by-99-percent
Cybersecurity
(Article) Ethereum's smart contracts are full of holes (MIT
Technology Review)
https://www.technologyreview.com/2018/03/01/144962/eth
ereums-smart-contracts-are-full-of-holes/
### Known Attacks - Ethereum Smart Contract Best Practices

https://ethereum-contract-security-techniques-andtips.readthedocs.io/en/latest/known_attacks/
Money Laundering
New York Man Charged In $100 Million Bitcoin Case
(Forbes) money laundering with bitcoin
https://www.forbes.com/sites/billybambrough/2020/05/28/n
ew-york-hacker-charged-in-100-million-dollar-bitcoincase/#1f3d050ac90e
### OFAC, the DPRK and the Tornado of Cash by Nicholas

Weaver https://www.lawfareblog.com/ofac-dprk-andtornado-cash
Exchanges
Ponzi Schemes, Private Yachts, and a Missing $250 Million
### in Crypto: The Strange Tale of Quadriga

https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2019/11/the-strange-taleof-quadriga-gerald-cotten
Binance Exchange Outages
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/08/19/cryptocurrency-tradersseek-damages-from-binance-after-major-outage.html
Crypto Exchanges
https://www.nbcnews.com/tech/security/bitcoin-cryptoexchange-hacks-little-anyone-can-do-rcna7870
Why Bitcoin is bullshit, explained by an expert
https://www.vox.com/conversations/2018/4/11/17206018/bi
tcoin-blockchain-cryptocurrency-weaver
6 9 - 30 Governance check Canvas for Final Assigned Readings
The complexity and arbitrariness of non-fungible tokens
# DAO

(NFTs) are a big part of their appeal.
### NFTs Show the Value of Owning the Unownable - The

NFT Continued (as needed)
Atlantic.pdf
### Digital & Fractional Ownership

### Crypto Banking and Decentralized Finance, Explained -

Voting https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/05/us/politics/cryptocurre
ncy-explainer.html
Impacts & Criticisms
DeFi explained by SEC

https://www.sec.gov/news/statement/crenshaw-defi20211109
Impacts & Criticisms
(Video)(30 min) “Burn it with Fire”
### by Nicholas Weaver, International Computer Science

Institute (ICSI) and University of California, Berkeley at
# USENIX

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MQDKMe6MDXQ
The complete argument against Crypto by Software
Engineer Stephen Diehl
https://www.stephendiehl.com/blog/complete.html
Optional
## Introduction: What is Web3?

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/03/18/technology
/web3-definition-internet.html
Review a few abstracts from “Web3 is doing great”
https://web3isgoinggreat.com/
Attacking the DeFi Ecosystem with Flash Loans for Fun
and Profit -
https://hackingdistributed.com/2020/03/11/flash-loans/
7 10 – 7 Applications of Blockchain in other Systemic Risk
industry? https://www.reuters.com/breakingviews/crypto-posessystemic-risks-that-need-swift-remedy-2021-09-07/
Private Ledger Consortiums
Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC)
### Central Bank Digital Currency

The federal reserve is considering a CBDC
(CBDC)
https://time.com/nextadvisor/investing/cryptocurrency/exper
t-reaction-to-fed-digital-currency-report/
Regulatory Discussions
ICO Failures
Emerging Risks
Nearly Half of 2017's Bitcoin-Backed 'ICO' Projects Have
Collapsed - $233 million in funding raised through ICOs
Metaverse
has vanished.
https://fortune.com/2018/02/25/cryptocurrency-icocollapse/amp/
Crypto Is Down, So Why Am I Smiling? By Dr. Stornetta

https://www.coindesk.com/crypto-is-down-so-why-am-ismiling
What Is the Metaverse, Exactly?
https://www.wired.com/story/what-is-the-metaverse/
BELOW ARE MORE OPTIONAL READINGS. These may be helpful for final project sources as well
Philosophy and Nuances of Trust Blockchain and Trust by Bruce Schneier
https://www.schneier.com/blog/archives/2019/02/blockchai
Other ‘types’ of Blockchains
n_and_.html
Public vs. Private
How the NSA (may have) put a backdoor in RSA's
cryptography: A technical primer
https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-the-nsa-may-have-put-abackdoor-in-rsas-cryptography-a-technical-primer/
Types of Blockchains & DLTs (Distributed Ledger
Technologies)
https://blockchainhub.net/blockchains-and-distributedledger-technologies-in-general/
### Property Discussions Art Market and NFTs

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/04/14/arts/design/nft-artCode is Law ideas
market-sothebys.html
Uses of ERC-721, NFTs to track
### Whitaker, Amy, and Roman Kräussl. Blockchain, Fractional

‘property rights’?
### Ownership, and the Future of Creative Work

Available at SSRN 3100389 (2019).
https://www.econstor.eu/bitstream/10419/182451/1/103126
3918.pdf
Art and Blockchain (Article, Artivate.org)
### A Primer, History, and Taxonomy of Blockchain Use Cases

in the Arts
https://artivate.org/artivate/article/view/94
Defining Property in the Digital Environment, Bitmark Inc.
### By Casey Alt, Sean Moss-Pultz, Amy Whitaker, & Timothy

Chen (26 min read)(PDF on Canvas)
A Mid-Year Review of the art market 2021 (Basel)
https://d2u3kfwd92fzu7.cloudfront.net/The_Art_Market_Mid
_Year_Review_2021.pdf

Boom or bubble: how sustainable is the recent success of
the online art trade? (Part 3)
https://www.hiscox.co.uk/sites/default/files/documents/2021
-04/hoatr_report_2020_part3.pdf
Industry Applications Who Controls the Blockchain?
https://hbr.org/2017/04/who-controls-the-blockchain
Regulations
Can blockchain, a swiftly evolving technology, be
Alternate views
controlled? (Article)
https://theconversation.com/can-blockchain-a-swiftlyevolving-technology-be-controlled-73471
### View of Blockchain technology as a regulatory technology:

From code is law to law is code
https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/7113/5
Crypto Is Down, So Why Am I Smiling? By Dr. Stornetta
https://www.coindesk.com/crypto-is-down-so-why-am-ismiling
'Blockchain' is meaningless (TheVerge)
https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/7/17091766/blockchainbitcoin-ethereum-cryptocurrency-meaning
What's Blockchain Actually Good for, Anyway? For Now,
Not Much
https://www.wired.com/story/whats-blockchain-good-fornot-much/
### Podcast Why Everybody Who Doesn't Hate Bitcoin Loves

It (Ep. 160) (freakonomics radio)
https://freakonomics.com/podcast/why-everybody-whodoesnt-hate-bitcoin-loves-it-a-new-freakonomics-radiopodcast/
Emerging Applications of A Cryptocurrency Technology Finds New Use Tackling
Blockchain in industry Coronavirus
https://www.wsj.com/articles/a-cryptocurrency-technologyFormulating Research Questions
finds-new-use-tackling-coronavirus-11587675966
Agriculture (Food traceability).
### Five Ways Blockchain Can Unblock The Coronavirus

### Blockchain for COVID Medical Supply Chain

- COVID-19 has had a https://www.forbes.com/sites/nishandegnarain/2020/03/22/
transformative effect on many 5-ways-blockchain-can-unblock-the-coronavirus-medicalworkplaces, markets, and
supply-chain/

businesses today.
### - Can blockchain models be Blockchain Can Bring Transparency To Coronavirus

used to solve new problems
Response
encountered by global
https://www.coindesk.com/how-blockchain-tech-can-makedisruptions to traditional supply
coronavirus-relief-more-effective
chains?
### - Can Blockchain provide

Overstock CEO: How blockchain can help pull us out of the
solutions to emerging COVIDcoronavirus recession Article in Fortune Magazine
19 related challenges?
- What traditional modes of https://fortune.com/2020/07/07/blockchain-technologysocietal interaction or regulation-coronavirus-economy/
traditional business models
have been less resilient than
Blockchain: What It Is, What It Isn't, and What It Means for
we hoped?

The Produce Industry
https://www.pma.com/content/articles/blockchain
Thoughts on the future.

IBM Food Trust - Blockchain for the world's food supply
https://www.ibm.com/blockchain/solutions/food-trust
and
BrightFarms adds blockchain tech through IBM Food Trust
Network (BrightFarms is now in 2000 stores)
https://www.thepacker.com/article/brightfarms-addsblockchain-tech-through-ibm-food-trust-network
Produce industry keeping tabs on blockchain | Packer
https://www.thepacker.com/article/produce-industrykeeping-tabs-blockchain
California Giant blockchain use boosts freshness, food
safety
https://www.thepacker.com/article/california-giantblockchain-use-boosts-freshness-food-safety
More on Stablecoins (Optional)
What are stablecoins? A blockchain expert explains
https://theconversation.com/what-are-stablecoins-ablockchain-expert-explains-164812
And
### Why Washington Worries About Stablecoins

https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/17/business/economy/fe
deral-reserve-virtual-currency-stablecoin.html

UnTethered https://slate.com/technology/2021/10/tethercrypto-danger-ben-mckenzie.html
PWGR on Stablecoins
https://www.sec.gov/news/statement/gensler-statementpresidents-working-group-report-stablecoins-110121
### Liberty Reserve Operators Accused of Money Laundering

($6 Billion)
https://www.nytimes.com/2013/05/29/nyregion/libertyreserve-operators-accused-of-money-laundering.html
How a $300K Bored Ape Yacht Club NFT accidentally sold
for $3K
https://www.cnet.com/news/how-a-300k-bored-ape-yachtclub-nft-was-accidentally-sold-for-3k/
### Why Johnny Can't Encrypt

This paper was originally published in the Proceedings of
the 8th USENIX Security Symposium (Washington, D.C.,
Aug. 23–36, 1999), 169–184
https://people.eecs.berkeley.edu/~tygar/papers/Why_John
ny_Cant_Encrypt/OReilly.pdf