# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, Students, students, resources, use, class, the instructor, the student, AI
**Document Length**: 1227 words

---

### CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY, HEINZ COLLEGE

### WRITING FOR CREATIVE INDUSTRIES, 6 UNITS

### Haylee Massaro, Associate Teaching Professor

### School of Information Systems & Management and Public Policy

Office Location: HBH 3007
Virtual Office Hours: Tuesdays from 11:30 AM - 1:30 PM (EST)
Join Zoom Meeting
https://cmu.zoom.us/j/93659058906?pwd=Q0o0VTMvNGtaQWNTSUUvUks2MDlzUT09
Meeting ID: 936 5905 8906
Passcode: 710822
**additional meetings by appointment, Mon - Thurs via Zoom
Email: hmassaro@andrew.cmu.edu
Course Description
Communication in written form is an essential element of being a professional in the creative industries.

Writing for museums, galleries, performing arts organizations, production companies, distribution
enterprises, talent agencies, and other contexts in arts and entertainment management challenges
students to convey critical thinking by anticipating readers’ needs and the perspectives of stakeholders.

The writing skills integral to this process include: targeting diverse audiences with varying levels of
expertise and roles, developing essential and persuasive content, communicating complex ideas
concisely, organizing information, ensuring clarity, moderating tone, designing a document for
readability, and maintaining format norms. Students will use real-world scenarios relevant to careers in
arts and entertainment management to write e-mails, press releases, reports, and proposals. Writing
resources and specialized sample documents will be provided.

Note: This course assumes proficiency in English grammar. Numerous resources for improving written
English skills are provided via Canvas.

Text(s)
- selected texts to be provided by the instructor
Objectives
### *  Differentiate the format and style of professional writing from personal and academic writing

### *  Determine the purpose and scope of the message

### *  Distinguish between essential versus non-essential information

### *  Target writing to particular readers, rather than preparing generic material

### *  Demonstrate writing as a tool to build and maintain professional relationships

### *  Communicate complex, data-heavy topics accurately using specific, plain language

### *  Maintain a logical structure through calculated organizational methods

### *  Format headings, lists, data, citations, and visuals with a focus on precision and consistency

### *  Design documents and materials that adhere to accessibility guidelines

### *  Create efficiently phrased, actionable communications for use in a workplace

### *  Edit documents thoroughly prior to distribution

Registration
Once a section is full, enrollment is dependent on: (1) the number of registered students who drop the
section, and (2) the waitlist order.

Classroom Policies
Professional conduct is necessary. Demonstrate respect for everyone in the room through active
listening, eye contact, and productive comments. As this is a writing course, rather than a course on
public policy, avoid policy debates. Further, while class is in session, refrain from: accessing personal
messages, sleeping or doing other coursework. Overall, students are expected to exhibit an interest in
professional development beyond simply completing the assignments.
# CLASS ATTENDANCE

This course consists of lectures, discussions, individual writing exercises, and peer review. Students are
responsible for obtaining course material distributed during their absence. For students with 2 or more
absences, the result will be a full drop in a letter grade. For instance, if your grade in the course is a 95%
and you have been absent more than 2 times, your grade will drop to an 85%.
# WELLNESS

Carnegie Mellon University has a wide array of resources and programs to support student wellness.

Students are encouraged to access these resources, and to contact the instructor if a health or safety
concern arises.
# TEACHING ASSISTANT

The teaching assistant’s contact information will be posted on Canvas. Feel free to proactively schedule
sessions (at least 2 business days in advance) with the TA for feedback on your work. Think of the TA as a
professional coach; the role is intended to provide guidance and offer resources for developing effective
presentations – ultimately, you are responsible for the work you deliver in class.

Written Assignments
Instructions for written assignments will be posted to Canvas in accordance with the course &
assignment schedule.
# LATE ASSIGNMENT POLICY

If a student submits a paper late, the student may be jeopardizing their ability to receive comments on
the first and final draft.

While allotments can be made for extenuating circumstances, if the assignment is handed in late, half of
a letter grade will be deducted from the overall score, for every day past the due date. For instance, if
you submit an assignment two days late, then the highest grade you can receive is 90%.
# POLICY ON EXTENSIONS

Late assignments earn a failing grade unless: (1) a religious observance or a documented medical
condition prevents on-time submission; and, (2) the student consulted with the instructor in advance for
approval of an alternate due date.
### Policy on Student Accommodations

The Carnegie Mellon University Office of Disability Resources reviews requests for “reasonable
accommodations, academic adjustments, and auxiliary aids and services.”[1] Students can work with the
instructor to arrange accommodations as needed on a case-by-case basis once accommodations are
granted by the Office of Disability Resources.

Global Communication Center (GCC)
The GCC provides communication consulting free-of-charge. Use this resource, located on campus in
Hunt Library, to enhance your academic performance: https://www.cmu.edu/gcc/.

Evaluation
The Heinz College rubric is included in this syllabus. Assignment specific editing checklists will be
provided during class.
### Grade Percentage Interpretation Points Graduation Credit

A+ 98 - 100 Exceptional 4.33 Yes
A 93 - 97 Excellent 4.00 Yes
A- 90 - 92 Very Good 3.67 Yes
B+ 88 - 89 Good 3.33 Yes
B 83 - 87 Acceptable 3.00 Yes
B- 80 - 82 Fair 2.67 Yes
C+ 78 - 79 Poor 2.33 Yes
C 73 - 77 Very Poor 2.00 Yes
C- 70 - 72 Minimal Passing 1.67 Yes
R 69 - below Failing 0 No
### I NA Incomplete 0 No

Assessments
### *  Press Release (20%)

### *  Professional Brief (25%)

### *  Blog Article (20 %)

### *  Professional Proposal (35 %)

Academic Conduct
Assignments are submitted via Turnitin. This technology compares documents with contact available on
the internet and with files previously uploaded. The site generates a report indicating matching content.

If an academic integrity violation is suspected, the student will be contacted to meet with the instructor
to determine if a violation has occurred based on Carnegie Mellon University’s Policy on Academic
### Integrity. Not that plagiarism includes:

### *  Presenting another writer’s work as your own

### *  Cutting and pasting contact verbatim without using quotation marks to indicate a direct quote

### *  Inserting a direct quote or paraphrasing without citing the source

### *  Providing incomplete or incorrect information about the source cited

During some class sessions, we may leverage generative AI tools to support your learning, provide you
with an opportunity to explore how they can be used, and/or better understand their benefits and
limitations. Learning how to use AI is an emerging skill, and we will work through the implications of
these evolving systems together. I will indicate when and where use of AI tools is appropriate (and not).

Examples of use might include: (1) brainstorming new ideas, (2) developing example outlines or
approaches to your work, (3) generating different ways to talk about a problem, and or (4) as a writing
tool to check for grammar, spelling, and phrasing.

Disclaimer: The instructor reserves the right to change any provision of this course outline including but
not limited to the right to change the time, order, and content of the course schedule.
[1] University, C. M. (n.d.). Retrieved June 27, 2017, from
https://www.cmu.edu/hr/eos/disability/students/policy-on-student-accommodations.html