# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Canvas, ###, Mondays, Hamburg Hall, class, this week, Museum Operations, Wednesdays, 1004
Fall, Mini
**Document Length**: 3502 words

---

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
### Instructor: Adjunct Professor, Rachel Saul Rearick

Contact Info: rachelre@andrew.cmu.edu
Texts/Resources: Genoways, Hugh H. and Lynne Ireland; revised by Cinnamon Caitlin- Legutko.

Museum Administration 2.0. Rowman & Littlefield, 2017.

ISBN 9781442255500
Additional materials will be provided by the instructor in Canvas or during class.
_____________________________________________________________________________________
# COURSE EXPECTATIONS

Respect for Diversity and Inclusion: It is my intent that our time together in this course will create an
inclusive space for each student, so that individuals from all backgrounds and perspectives will be well
served by their experience. The diversity that each student brings to the space will be viewed as a
resource. It is my intent to create an environment that is respectful of: ability, age, culture, ethnicity,
gender, race, religion, sexuality, and socio-economic status. Your suggestions are encouraged and
appreciated.

Transitioning Our Class to Other Modes of Learning: There may be circumstances that will require the
instructor or the University to make a short-term switch to a fully remote environment. Should any of
these circumstances occur, you will receive an email from the instructor with an announcement
published on the Canvas site. It is highly recommended that you turn on your Canvas notifications to
ensure you are kept informed.

Time Needed for Assignments/Class Preparation: Students should plan for individual class preparation
to take approximately 1-2 hours per class. Time needed for individual assignments will vary depending
on the assignment. In general, engagement in the course material and planning ahead will help you keep
pace with the assignments and class discussions.
# COURSE DESCRIPTION

Museums should aim to preserve, present, and interpret arts, culture, history, and sciences for the
intended benefit of the public and society; as well as to create a third space for communities. All
museums—regardless of budget, type, or size —face similar operational challenges (as well their own
respective set of complications); which must be managed by stakeholders dedicated to executing their
mission and goals.

In this course, students will gain a practical understanding of museum operations and the unique and
multi-factored challenges of modern museum management. The course emphasizes museum standards
and best practices, particularly within American art museums, as well as identifies resources both within
and adjacent to the industry. Cross-cutting topics which will build upon MAM first year coursework
include governance, financial sustainability, facilities, administration, visitor engagement and education,
and collection stewardship. Additionally, case studies (via assignments and class discussion) address
complexities in the museum field today such as diversity, equity, and inclusion in museum settings;
issues in collections management, ethics, and deaccession debates; toxic philanthropy, and risk
management.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
The course surveys the many roles and responsibilities inherent in running a museum or non-profit arts
organization and different kinds of arts management careers available within both large institutions and
small, traditional museums versus alternative spaces, and the unique advantages / disadvantages /
opportunities of each.
# COURSE STRUCTURE

This course will utilize a series of readings, discussions, lectures, digital tools, and course-related
assignments. Readings and online discussions will provide an important foundation on key topics and
must be completed prior to each class. Lectures, in-class discussions, and digital tools will provide
opportunities to further engage with the content. Course-related assignments will assess student
learning in a range of topics. Course-related assignments and other details will be discussed in each
class.
# COURSE OBJECTIVES

### Learning Objectives How Assessed

## 1. Articulate museum functional operations and indicate how core

Participation in discussions
standards, best practices, and clear policies are key components to effective
and written assignments
museum management.
## 2. Examine trends and discuss ethical issues in museum management

Participation in discussions
regarding governance, collections, visitor engagement, financial
and written assignments
sustainability, facilities, and risk management.
## 3. Apply critical thinking skills and propose solutions to museum operational Participation in discussions

challenges. and written assignments
# COURSE SCHEDULE

Please note that this syllabus is subject to change, including the order of content and assignments.

WEEK 1
### Class Welcome and Introduction to Modern Museums

### Governance, Leadership, and Organizational Structures

### Readings for this week:

Museum Administration 2.0
### Chapters 1, 2, 3, 6

### AAM Core Standards for Museums (in Canvas)

### AAM Code of Ethics for Museums (in Canvas)

WEEK 2
Accessibility, Inclusion
### Readings for this week:

Can Museums Be Neutral or Should They Take a Stance (in Canvas)
### Museums as Third Spaces for Intercultural Dialogues (in Canvas)

Excerpts from The Revolution Will Not Be Funded (in Canvas)

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
WEEK 3
### Programming, Interpretation, Community Trust

### Readings for this week:

Museum Administration 2.0
Chapters 12
Take a Look Around: A customer journey analysis of the museum store (in Canvas)
Developing Wayfinding systems in museums (in Canvas)
WEEK 4
### Collections Management, Stewardship, and Logistics

### Readings for this week:

### Twenty-One Ways to Buy Art (in Canvas)

WEEK 5
### Budgets, Sustainability, Contributed & Earned Revenue

### Readings for this week:

Museum Administration 2.0
### Chapters 4 & 6

WEEK 6
### Facilities Management & Risk Management

### Readings for this week:

Museum Administration 2.0
### Chapters 9 & 10

WEEK 7
### Review of Modern Museums, Group Presentations

# COURSE EVALUATION CRITERIA

Course grades will be calculated using the following assessments. Assessment descriptions are listed
below and also posted in Canvas. Additional readings and videos will be assigned and students will be
expected to participate in conversation around those components during class, however points will not
be assigned to those items. Each of those readings and videos are listed in Canvas with due dates.
### Use of AI:

To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself,
without the use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate
any content (text, video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off
any AI generated content as your own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or
paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any
questions about using generative AI in this course please email or talk to me.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
### Assessment Description Possible Due Date

Points
Written Assignment: Memorable Museum Visit 10 Sept. 2, 2024 by Noon
Written Assignment: Museums and Neutrality 15 Sept. 11, 2024 by Noon
Acquisitions and Conservation Policy for a Case Study 25 Sept. 18, 2024 by Noon
Group Assignment: Museum Wide Project Plan 25 Oct. 2, 2024 at 3:30PM
Group Presentation: Museum Wide Project Plan Presentation 20 Oct. 9, 2024
### Written Assignment: Memorable Museum Visit = 10 Points

Due September 2, 2024 by Noon
Write a short essay (750 - 1000 words) about a significant museum experience that made an impact on
you, whether positive or negative.

The essay should describe your experience in detail, and help the reader understand why this made an
impression on you; and can be focused on anything you choose (from the presentation of art, programs
offered, the facility, or even staff interaction - for example). If the experience was positive, point out
who or what specifically made it that way. If the experience was negative, suggest what could have
been different.

This essay should not be a direct review of an artwork, but rather it should be focused on your visitor
experience. Please include the Mission Statement for the site that you select and be sure to cite your
references
### Written Assignment: Museums and Neutrality = 15 Points

Due September 2, 2024 by Noon
Following class discussions and your reading of the MuseumNext article (Can Museums Be Neutral Or
Should They Take a Stance,) the article from the Center for Intercultural Dialogue (Museums for Third
Spaces for Intercultural Dialogues,) and excerpts from The Revolution Will Not Be Funded, please write a
1,000 - 1,250 word critical review regarding museums and neutrality. Be sure to cite references.
### Things to consider including for your review:

### *  Who within a museum should establish the content for an exhibition: how and why

### *  Who within a museum should create community programming: how and why

### *  Should a museum take a stance on social justice issues: how and why

### *  Should a museum take a stance on political issues: how and why

### *  If a museum takes a stance on any issue, does that require them to also take action(s) of some

kind
### *  How do you imagine a museums should approach these topics when funding is a stake

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
### Collections Policy for a Case Study = 25 Points

Due September 18, 2024 by Noon
Following class discussions, assigned readings from the textbook, and the chapter Twenty-One Ways to
Buy Art from Making Museums Matter by Stephen E. Weil, you are asked to produce a sample
Collections Policy that is inclusive of Acquisitions, Gifts, Deaccessioning, Records and Inventories, and
Access to the Collection.

While the policy will be created for a fictitious museum, much of the information provided below for the
case study has been coalesced from a collection of existing museums and therefore carries practical
implication.

CASE STUDY: The Museum of Alloy, located in the US
### Purpose of fictitious museum / mission statement:

The mission of the Museum of Alloy is to preserve, promote, and advance the art and craft of fine
metalwork.
### About the collection:

There are over 1,500 objects in the collection of the Museum of Alloy, representing sculpture, jewelry,
functional objects, and decorative arts. The works span contemporary art all the way back to the 17th
Century. In addition to objects, the Museum of Alloy collections include a resource library of over 1,000
books and an archive of over 7,000 architectural drawings, photographs, and exhibition catalogs. The
collections serve as a resource for artists and researchers interested in particular forms, processes and
techniques, as well as a repository for metalsmiths to preserve their legacy. It is accessible to the public
through onsite exhibitions, the online catalog, loans to other institutions and by appointment with the
curatorial staff.

Budget for the maintenance and programming of the collection: $5,500 annually
Budget for acquisitions: A quasi-endowment reserve fund totaling $645,000
### Group Assignment: Museum Wide Project Plan = 25 Points

Due October 2, 2024 at the start of class
As we will learn throughout the course, successfully operating a museum takes collaboration and there
are a considerable number of operational variables at play such as budgets, fundraising, marketing,
staffing, and more.

The objective of this assignment will be for your team to develop a cohesive project schedule around
one of five fictitious prompts below.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
Project Plan 1: A 50 year anniversary celebration of a Contemporary Art museum, which is honoring
their founder. The Museum’s annual budget is $6M and this project will run the duration of a year.

Project Plan 2: The launch of a permanent collection for a non-profit arts organization that is seeking
museum status. Their collection focus is on glass and they have 225 objects. The Museum’s annual
budget is $3M and this project will run for four months.

Project Plan 3: A University Museum that is focused on textile arts has a new Museum Director after 20
years. Under the new leadership, the Director would like to showcase innovative approaches to textiles
with less focus less on the permanent collection. The inaugural project should have a social justice
focus. Their annual budget is $850,000 and this first project will run for three months.

Project Plan 4: An American Art Museum wants to pair works by one artist from their photography
collection with works by contemporary regional photographer making work about the climate. Their
annual budget is $12M and the project will run for six months.

Project Plan 5: A museum whose campus is comprised of 10 acres with multiple buildings including a
home and studio is focused on celebrating the life and works of one famed furniture artist, (with more
than 2000 pieces in the collection). This museum is planning an exhibition comprised of 35 pieces to be
held in their main building, which houses the gallery. Their annual budget is $2M and the project will
run for six months.
### Things that you will be asked to create within your plan include:

o An exhibition theme inclusive of: an exhibition statement, decision about artist selection (juried
vs curated), and a curator’s essay about the works and content related to societal relevance.
o Public programming: offerings, schedule, and partners if applicable.
o A marketing plan: what are all of the pieces that need communicated, to whom, and a timeline
for delivery of each.
o A budget for the project with revenue and expense allocations inclusive of: sales from tickets,
events, or programs and costs for staffing, exhibition costs, marketing costs, materials cost for
programs, any stipends for artists, teachers, lecturers, etc.

Your project plan will be turned in as one portfolio at the start of class, noting which team member was
responsible for each section. While your individual grade will be a representation of how well you
prepared your section, it will be necessary for you to work as a team to assure there is communication
between the areas with evidence represented throughout each section. For instance, public
programming must know what is happening in the exhibition; and marketing and budgeting must know
the activities of each as well. More discussion around this will occur in class during the first session, with
teams that will be randomly selected & projects randomly drawn per team in class.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
### Group Presentation: Museum Wide Project Plan Presentation = 20 Points

In-class presentations on October 9, 2024
Your group will provide a presentation in-class that adequately conveys your project plan and allows for
classmates to ask questions regarding your approaches. Your grade will be a representation of what you
contributed to the presentation individually as well as how the team worked together overall to create a
comprehensive project. Recognizing that not all students are equally comfortable with public speaking,
it is acceptable if team members roles are divided - as long as it is clearly articulated what each team
member has contributed to the presentation (i.e. if someone is incredible at graphics and power-point
and they set-up the entire deck while someone else presents, please be clear about the division of
labor).
# GRADING POLICIES

Attendance and Participation: Please alert me if you will need to miss class for any excusable reason
(religious observance, job interview, university-sanctioned event, etc.); everyone will be permitted one
absence for this course. After the first absence, the student’s overall letter grade for the course is
subject to reduction by half a grade. If there are extenuating circumstances that require a student to
miss more than one class session, please make arrangements to discuss the matter in advance; I would
like to find a way to support you.

For students who attend all classes; 5 extra points will be added to your lowest homework score when
computing your final grade (i.e., extra credit). This will be the only option for extra credit within the
course.

Because we will devote some class time to discussion around assignments, it is important to note that
our participation together will be less concerned with finding an “answer” during the discussion; but
instead working together to engage in thoughtful conversation.

Missed Classes: Students are responsible for any material they miss in class. Please review Canvas and
discuss with a classmate who can inform you of any missed material, or please contact the instructor in
advance of any foreseeable absences (as outlined in the attendance policy), so that you may continue
your course work.

Late / Make Up Work: Due dates for every assignment are provided on the course syllabus and in
Canvas. Unless otherwise stated, assignments are due on those days. However, recognizing that
sometimes life presents unknowns, you will be allotted one assignment that can be turned in late – up
to two days – without penalty. That excludes the group assignment which must be turned in on time; if
that is turned in late then 5 points will be deducted from your group score, per day that it is late.

For any assignment that is turned in late beyond the one time allowance without penalty, 5 points will
be deducted from your score on that assignment.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
Grading Scale
Graduate
A+ 99 - 100 B+ 88 – 89 C+ 78 – 79 R Below 70
### Exceptional Good Poor Failing

A 94-99 B 84 – 88 C 74 – 78 I
### Excellent Acceptable Very Poor Incomplete

A- 90-93 B- 80 – 83 C- 70 -73
### Very Good Fair Minimum Passing

# COURSE POLICIES

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities: If you have a disability and are registered with the
Office of Disability Resources, please use their online system to notify the instructor of your
accommodations and make arrangements to discuss your needs with the instructor as early in the
course as possible. The instructor will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but
are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, please contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu
Intellectual and Professional Integrity: Students at Carnegie Mellon University are engaged in preparing
for professional activity of the highest standards, including the highest standards of ethics and integrity.

You are expected to have read and understood the Student Handbook and to conduct yourself in a
professional manner both inside and outside the classroom, particularly as representatives of this
course, the Master of Arts Management Program, Heinz College, and Carnegie Mellon University.

Misrepresentation of another’s work as your own (e.g. plagiarism and cheating) is widely recognized as a
very serious matter. Cases of cheating and plagiarism are viewed by the University as extremely serious.

Students found to have cheated or plagiarized on an assignment will receive a zero on the assignment
and information about the offense will be submitted to the Dean’s office for review. Severe penalties
may be imposed, up to and including expulsion.

Recordings: Students are allowed to record class sessions only with the instructor’s permission.

Permitted recordings are only for your personal use. Distribution of any recording is prohibited. This is to
protect your FERPA rights and those of your fellow colleagues.

Technology: This class will involve the occasional use of technology (laptops, tablets and phones) during
class. Please keep your technology tools charged and nearby for use when designated by the instructor.

Having access to portable headphones with a microphone is also recommended. Research has shown
that divided attention is detrimental to learning, so please minimize distractions by turning off device
notifications and limiting open windows to related class work (for example: use of a Google doc to
collaboratively take notes when working with a group). All personal matters requiring email, messaging,
texts, other homework, etc. must be handled outside of class.

# 93-807: Museum Operations

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Fall 2024, Mini 1 – Master of Arts Management
# STUDENT RESOURCES

Food Insecurity
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus
that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator at: cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu
Student Academic Success Center: CMU’s Student Academic Success Center offers a wide variety of
resources to help support student learning. These resources include academic coaching, peer tutoring,
communication support, and language and cross- cultural support. For more information, visit:
https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/
Statement of Support for Students’ Health and Well-Being: Take care of yourself. Do your best to
maintain a healthy lifestyle by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep,
and taking time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress. If you or anyone you
know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, you are
strongly encouraged to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: Call
# 412-268-2922 and visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/