# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, TBD, Peter Zhang, students, CMU, Peer Tutoring, 15%, 5

Decision Analytics, Business, Policy
**Document Length**: 1635 words

---

### Decision Analytics for Business and Policy

# 94-867 (Heinz) / 19-867 (EPP) / 12-768 (CEE)

Fall 2024
Instructor: Peter Zhang Lecture: M/W 3:30-4:50PM (A), 5-6:20PM (B)
Email: pyzhang@cmu.edu Place: HBH 1204
Updated: August 20, 2024
### Teaching Assistants:

Hao Hao (haohao@andrew.cmu.edu )
Guanting Wu (guantinw@andrew.cmu.edu)
Yidi Miao (yidim@andrew.cmu.edu)
Instructor Office Hours: Drop-ins Mondays and Wednesdays (2118E)
Main References: There is no required text. You may find the following optional textbooks useful.
*  Hillier and Lieberman, Introduction to Operations Research, McGraw-Hill, 2015.
### *  Abbott,Applied Predictive Analytics: Principles and Techniques for the Professional Data Analyst,Wiley,

2014.

Summary: Most courses under the name of “analytics” are about making predictions (i.e., data analytics).

However, predictions alone are not sufficient to solve problems. We need to produce decisions. This course
focuses on the process of making good decisions.

This course assumes intermediate python experience and prior exposure to management science and operations research topics. It focuses on modeling frameworks and computational tools to address complex decisionmaking problems that arise in policy and business. The course is organized by technical topics, from contextual
optimization, optimizationunderuncertainty, todynamiclearningandoptimization. Wemotivateourtechnical
discussions by a rich set of applications, such as logistics planning, resource allocation, and health care. Coding
will be done in Python. Students will use a range of modern optimization and machine learning packages.

Prerequisites: (1)Anintroductorycourseinmanagementscience/operationsresearch,(2)intermediatePython
programming skills, (3) basic understanding of data and machine learning, and (4) mathematical maturity.
### Assessment:

### *  Participation (15%)

### *  Assignments (15% = 5%×3)

### *  Midterm Exam (20%)

### *  Quiz (10%)

### *  Project (40%)

### Important Notes About Grading

### Page 1 of 5

Decision Analytics for Business and Policy — Carnegie Mellon University Instructor: Peter Zhang
*  For each assignment, it is important to include both the mathematical formulations (with clear explanation) and code, you will not receive any points if either part is missing.
*  Collaboration on assignments is encouraged, with no more than one partner. You have to indicate whom
you have collaborated with in each submission, and submit your own version of the write up and code.

Project is done in teams of 3 to 5 people. Other deliverables are individual.
### *  For late submissions of most deliverables (homework, project, reading synopsis, Learning & Question

survey), 5% is deducted every hour, e.g., final score of a submission is max{(s−5x),0}, where x is the
number of hours late, and s is the score out of 100 if submitted on time. Quizzes are done during lecture
times, and late submissions are not accepted.
*  Final letter grades are calculated in a two-step process.
## 1. We first convert percentages to letters by this mapping: A+ 97.00 – 100.00%; A 93.00 – 96.99%; A90.00 – 92.99%; B+ 87.00 – 89.99%; B 83.00 – 86.99%; B- 80.00 – 82.99%; C+ 77.00 – 79.99%; C

73.00 – 76.99%; C- 70.00 – 72.99%.
## 2. Ifnecessary, wethencurvethelettergradesupwarduntiltheymatchHeinzCollegestandards. There

is no downward curving. This usually means a distribution similar to or better than 50% A’s and
50% B’s.

Special Needs: IfyouhaveadisabilityandhaveanaccommodationsletterfromtheDisabilityResourcesOffice,
please discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will be happy
to discuss your specific needs privately and to work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not
yet registered with the Disability Resources Office, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Academic Honesty: Honesty and transparency are important features of good scholarship. The rules and
the academic integrity standards outlined in your student handbook will be strictly enforced. Violations are
considered a fundamental breach of trust and will result in failure of the course.

Your Well-Being: If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings
like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services
(CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider
reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can
help. If the situation is life threatening, call the police: CMU Police 412-268-2323, or 911.

Student Academic Success Center (SASC): SASC focuses on creating spaces for students to engage in their
coursework and approach learning through a variety of group and individual options. They offer many opportunities for students to deepen your understanding of who you are as learners, communicators, and scholars.

Their services and workshops are free to the CMU community and meet the needs of all disciplines and levels
of study. SASC programs to support student learning include the following:
### *  Academic Coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops

to help undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists
students with time management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management,
and other skills.
### *  Peer Tutoring – Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their

coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open
tutoring sessions during the fall and spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing
individualized and small group sessions. You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content, clarify
### Page 2 of 5

Decision Analytics for Business and Policy — Carnegie Mellon University Instructor: Peter Zhang
and ask questions, and work through practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being
supported by Peer Tutoring.
### *  Communication Support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as

well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts including IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design, advanced
research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data visualization,
and team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment (in-person or video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or
videos to strengthen communication skills.
### *  Language and Cross-Cultural Support – This program supports students seeking help with language and

cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual and group sessions. Students
can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations and strategies for clear academic
writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and more.
### *  Supplemental Instruction (SI) – This program offers a non-remedial approach to learning in historically

difficult courses at CMU. It utilizes a peer-led group study approach to help students succeed and is
facilitated by an SI leader, a CMU student who has successfully completed the course. SI offers a way
to connect with other students studying the same course, a guaranteed weekly study time that reinforces
learning and retention of information, as well as a place to learn and integrate study tools and exam
techniques specific to a course.

About Generative AI Tools. In this course, you are encouraged to explore the use of generative artificial
intelligence(GenAI)tools, suchasChatGPT.FromtimetotimewemayexplicitlyaskyoutoexploreChatGPT
and analyze its output for certain problems. In any case, the use of GenAI tools must be appropriately
acknowledged and cited, including the specific version of the tool used. Submitted work should include the
exact prompt used to generate the content as well as the AI’s full response in an Appendix. Because AI
generated content is not necessarily accurate or appropriate, it is each student’s responsibility to assess the
validity and applicability of any generative AI output that is submitted. You may not earn full credit if
inaccurate, invalid, or inappropriate information is found in your work. Deviations from these guidelines will
be considered violations of CMU’s academic integrity policy. Note that expectations for “plagiarism, cheating,
and acceptable assistance” on student work may vary across your courses and instructors. Please email me if
you have questions regarding what is permissible and not for a particular course or assignment.

We hope you have a productive and safe semester!
### Page 3 of 5

Decision Analytics for Business and Policy — Carnegie Mellon University Instructor: Peter Zhang
### Tentative Course Plan, Mini 1:

## Week Topic Due

1 LP Review. Data-to-Decision Pipelines. Modern Solvers.
1M: Linear programming review.
1W: Introduction to data-to-decision pipelines.
1R: Introduction to modern solvers.
2 Data to Information via Parameterization. A1 (SIR fit) release
2M: Labor Day no class.
2W: Data-to-information theoretical framework.
2R: TBD
3 D2I Examples
3M: Flexible D2I function example: neural networks.
3W: Mechanistic D2I function example: SIR model.
3R: Epidemic spread coding.
4 Data to Decisions: Contextual Optimization A1 due; A2 (Markowitz++) release
4M: D2D theoretical framework.
4W: D2D practice: optimal admission decisions.
4R: D2D practice.
5 Decision Making with Generative AI.
5M: TBD.
5W: Decision under uncertainty: Markowitz Portfolio.
5R: Convex optimization solver cvxpy.
### 6 Decision Under Uncertainty A2 due

6M: Markowitz Model implementation.
6W: Two-stage optimization theory.
6R: TBD
7 Decision Under Uncertainty In-class exam on Wednesday
7M: Two-stage model implementation (airline).
7W: Midterm Exam.
7R: No recitation.
·················· Fall Break ···············
### Page 4 of 5

Decision Analytics for Business and Policy — Carnegie Mellon University Instructor: Peter Zhang
### Tentative Course Plan, Mini 2:

## Week Topic Due

8 (Conference Week) Project release
8M: No class.
8W: No class. Self guided project team formation.
8R: No class.
9 Deterministic Dynamic Decision Making. A3 (hospital) release
9M: Dynamic programming theory.
9W: Backward induction implementation.
9R: TBD.
10 Exploration versus Exploitation.
10M: Multiarmed bandit theory.
10W: Multiarmed bandit implementation (pricing).
10R: TBD.
### 11 Reinforcement Learning. A3 due

11M: Q-learning.
11W: Q-learning implementation.
11R: TBD.
12 Modern General Framework for RL.
12M: Offline training and online play theory.
12W: TBD.
12R: TBD.
13 Quiz
13M: Quiz.
13W: Thanksgiving no class.
13R: Thanksgiving no class.
### 14 Project Presentations Report due

14M: Presentation day 1.
14W: Presentation day 2.
14R: No class.
### Page 5 of 5