# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, AI, Canvas, class, the instructor, the TA, resources, Canvas > Assignments, the document, a disability
**Document Length**: 2391 words

---

### CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY, HEINZ COLLEGE

WRITING FOR CREATIVE INDUSTRIES (93-717), 6 UNITS
FALL 2024 MINI 1
### Stacy Rosenberg, Associate Teaching Professor

Office hours: by appointment
S chool of Information Systems & Management Email: stacyr@cmu.edu
### School of Public Policy & Management

# COURSE DESCRIPTION

Employers in creative industries value writing skills. Professional writing for jobs in the field of entertainment
requires students to convey critical thinking by anticipating readers’ needs and the perspectives of stakeholders.

The writing skills integral to this process include: targeting diverse audiences with varying levels of expertise and
roles, researching and developing content, organizing information, communicating complex ideas concisely,
ensuring clarity, controlling tone, designing a document for readability, and maintaining format norms. Students
will use real-world cases relevant to careers in the entertainment industry to enhance their business writing
skills. Resources and specialized sample documents will be provided. The use of GenAI as a writing tool will be
e xplored.
# COURSE OBJECTIVES



 Differentiate the format and style of professional writing from personal and academic writing
 Determine the purpose and scope of the message
 Distinguish between essential versus non-essential information
 Target writing to particular readers, rather than preparing generic material
 Demonstrate writing as a tool to build and maintain professional relationships
 Communicate complex, data-heavy topics accurately using specific, plain language
 Maintain a logical structure through calculated organizational methods
 Format headings, lists, data, citations, and visuals with a focus on precision and consistency
 Create efficiently phrased, actionable communications for use in a workplace
Edit documents thoroughly before distribution
Explore generative AI-relevant writing in a professional environment
# REGISTR ATION

Students in the Master of Entertainment Industry Management program at Heinz College are prioritized for
e nrollment. Once a section is full, enrollment is dependent on: (1) the number of registered students who drop the
section, and (2) the waitlist order.
### REQUIRED STYLE GUIDE FOR FORMATTING CITATIONS, GRAPHS, AND TABLES

T he American Psychological Association (APA) style manual.

TEACHING ASSISTANT’S ROLE
Students who are seeking individualized help with writing can request appointments with the Teaching Assistant
(TA). The TA’s contact information is posted on Canvas > Announcements. Please contact the TA at least 2
business days in advance. Afte r scheduling an appointment, come prepared to ask a particular question about the
assignment or about specific wr iting skills. Do not ask the TA to read and edit your entire draft. Instead, think of
the TA as a professional coach;the role is intended to provide guidance on the writing process and offer resources
for you to improve your work –ultimately, you are responsible for the work you submit.

# ASSIGNMENTS

Instructions for written assignments will be posted to Canvas > Assignments. On the due date for each
assignment, upload the document to the Assignments area of Canvas using the filename configurations as follows:
lEaVsAtnLaUmAeT_IfOirNs tname_section_assignment.pdf.

Th e grading scale appears in Table 1. The rubric is included i n this syllabus and assignment-specific checklists will
be provided during class. The semester grade is weighted as:
Participation (10%) Press Release Quiz (20%)
TabCloen 1te. nHte Minazn aCgoellmegene tG Croamdimnugn Siccaalteio*n (30%) Industry Report (40%)
### Grade Interpretatio n Points Graduation Credit

A+ Exceptional 4.33 Yes
A Excellent 4.00 Yes
A- Very Good 3.67 Yes
B+ Good 3.33 Yes
B Acceptable 3.00 Yes
B- Fair 2.67 Yes
C+ Poor 2.33 Yes
C Very Poor 2.00 Yes
C- Minimal Passing 1.67 Yes
### R Failing 0 No

*See the Heinz College Student Handbook and the MEIM program handbook for more information.
### I Incomplete 0 No

# PURPOSE AND ASSESSMENT OF DRAFTS

Drafts serve as preparation for meetings with the TA and for peer-feedback sessions prior to submitting the
final, graded version. Further, drafts are useful for time management. Grade deductions will occur if a draft is
incomplete, or if there is a lack of participation in the peer-feedback s essions. Drafts submitted past the due date
and time result in a letter grade deduction off the final version for that assignment. Incomplete drafts result in
hPaOlLf IaC lYe tOtNer E gXrTadEeN dSIeOdNuSc tion off the final version for that assignment.

Late assignments earn a failing grade unless: (1) a religious observance or a documented medical condition
prevents on-time submission; and, (2) the student consulted with the instructor in advance, when possible, for
aPpOpLrIoCvYa Ol Nof S aTnU aDltEeNrnTa AteC CdOuMe dMaOteD. A TIONS
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, please discuss
your accommodations and needs with me as early in the mini as possible so I can offer flexibility as appropriate.

If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered
AwTitThE tNhDe AONffCicEe A oNf DD iPsaAbRiTliItCyI RPAesToIOurNc es, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

This course consists of lectures, discussions, individual writing exercises, and peer-review sessions. Active
engagement in the class sessions is important. Participation includes: (1) being a constructive and respectful
contributor to class discussions; and (2) meaningful involvement in writing exercises and peer-review sessions.

While class is in session, refrain from accessing a device for any reason other than engaging with this course.

Absences are excused for religious observance and documented medical conditions. Contact the instructor to
d iscuss any attendance concerns.

# ACADEMIC CONDUCT

Assignments are reviewed by Turnitin. This technology compares documents with content available on the
Internet and with files previously uploaded. The site generates a report indicating matching content. If an
academic integrity violation is suspected, the student will be contacted to meet with the instructor to determine
if a violation has occurred based on Carnegie Mellon University’s Policy on Academic Integrity. Note that
a cademic integrity violations include:
 Presenting another writer’s work as your own;
Cutting and pasting content verbatim without using quotation marks to indicate a direct quote;
Inserting a direct quote or paraphrasing content without citing the source in-text using footnotes, endnotes,
o r parenthetical citations with a corresponding References, or Notes page – in a manner consistent with an APA
o r Chicago style guide;
 Providing incomplete or incorrect information about the source cited;
 Over-relying on templates or another writer’s phrasing;
Submitting work written for another course;
Using content generated by AI platforms unless required by the instructor for a specific exercise.

Plagiarism is a serious offense that will result in the student failing the course. All academic integrity violations
will be reported to the associate dean's office for the student’s program of study and the Carnegie Mellon
UGUnIiDveArNsCitEy ODNiv TisHioEn U oSfE S OtuF dAeIn t Affairs. Additional penalties may be imposed.

This course will provide you with an opportunity to explore generative AI for professional writing. We will
consider how AI platforms can be used to craft documents relevant to entertainment management and to better
understand the benefits and limitations of generative AI.

Please note that the direct use of AI platforms – such as ChatGPT, Gemini, or Copilot – is optional. Students who
opt out may be paired with students who opt in so everyone can still participate in class exercises and
dIMisPcuOsRsiToAnNs. T: Using generative AI tools does not absolve you from your responsibilities to follow the
academic integrity guidelines of the university – and to ensure any content presented as part of your
coursework stems from a credible, verifiable source and is both cited and accurate.
* 
### In th* i s class, you may use AI tools to:

*  brainstorm topics
*  identify key issues relevant to your topic
consider the perspectives of stakeholders
participate in discussions and exercises about AI-generated content
Submitting assignments with AI-generated content outside of the allowable uses specifically ide-n (tTifhieisd pboyl itchye i s
iandsatprutecdto frr omma yth ceo Hnsetinitzu tCeo allneg aec CadheamtGiPcT in Ttoeogrlkitiyt 2v0io2l3a)tion. If you have any questions about the acceptable use of
AI-generated content or visuals, then ask the instructor before submitting work for this course.
### Table 2. Schedule of Classes and Assignments*

Targeted Skills Required Readings Work Due – Bring laptop every day
## Week 1

Course overview Syllabus posted to Aug. 27: No work due
Canvas
Phrasing statements concisely Audience analysis Aug. 29: Class lecture and exercises
handout on Canvas > on writing concisely
## Week 2 Modules

Crafting strategic press Sample press Sept. 3: Class lecture and exercises
releases and crisis statements releases will be on writing for the news media
provided in class
## Week 3 Sept. 5: Quiz – bring a pencil to class

Managing entertainment Inclusive language Sept. 10: Class meets on Zoom. See
industry content online resource on Canvas > Canvas for the link. Come prepared
Modules with a webpage URL for the content
Enhancing style and tone mPaonsta gUeRmL etno tC caonmvams u>n Diciasctiuosnsi ons
assignment
Writing clear, actionable Content management ( )
communications checklist provided
during editing S(Uepplto. 1ad2 :t Do rCaafnt vcaosn >te Ansts migannmaegnetms eanntd
workshop cborimngm au npircinattieodn c doupye to class)
## Week 4

Researching industry trends Zotero overview and Sept. 17: Entertainment industry
and learning citation tools tutorials r eport assignment guidance
provided in class
(Upload to
Citation resources CSeapntv:a 1s9 >: AFisnsiagln cmonetnetns)t management
provided on Canvas > communication due
Modules
## Week 5

Exploring generative AI for McKinsey & Sept. 24: GenAI workshop
writing for creative industries Company article on
## Week 6 generative AI Sept. 26: Research workshop

(Upload to Canvas > Assignments and
Editing communications Industry report Obrcitn. g1 :a Dprrianftte idn dcuopstyr tyo r celpaossr)t due
before distribution checklist provided
during editing
workshop
## Week 7 Oct. 3: To be announced

Applying course topics to your Heinz College Career OPcot.s t8 d: Jeosbcr dipetsicorni potri oUnR dLu teo fCoarn tvhaes >
careers Services resume and iDnitsecrunsssihoinps y. Bouri nagre y toaurrg eretisnugm e to
cover letter (class as a printed document.)
resources
### Upload to Canvas > Assignments

Oct. 10: Final industry report due
*Subject to change: announcements will be posted via Canvas. ( )
# HEINZ COLLEGE WRITING RUBRIC

# LEVELS OF CONTENT AUDIENCE LOGIC AND CLARITY AND GRAMMAR AND

# PROFICIENCY ORGANIZATION TONE MECHANICS

The extent to which The extent to which The extent to which the The extent to which The extent to
the document the document is d*  ocument demonstrates the document which the
demonstrates s* u itable for diverse a*  coherent structure. demonstrates the document
knowledge of the audiences. Uses topic sentences ability to demonstrates the
s* u bject matter and Prepares Supports topic communicate clearly conventions of
objective. documents based sentences with a*  nd to use an E*  nglish, including
*  Communicates a on audience *  examples and/or appropriate tone. * co rrect:
clear purpose *  demographics evidence *  Selects precise *  Grammar
### *  Provides relevant, and roles *  Includes meaningful *  words *  Punctuation

thorough content *  Prioritizes transitions Writes concisely *  Capitalization
Demonstrates audience needs Maintains logical *  Writes in active *  Spelling
critical thinking Addresses sequencing and voice Citations
stakeholders’ categorization via *  Limits the use of Format
likely questions headings as well as pronouns
and concerns parallel structure in Uses professional
lists language
Advanced; Demonstrates Demonstrates Demonstrates a logical, Demonstrates Demonstrates
Professional and advanced advanced cohesive structure. advanced word advanced control
effective knowledge of the knowledge of the choice that creates of grammar and
subject matter and audience. clarity and produces mechanics.
o bjective. a professional tone.

Acceptable; Demonstrates Demonstrates Demonstrates an Demonstrates Demonstrates
Minor revisions acceptable acceptable acceptable structure; yet, acceptable word acceptable
are knowledge of the knowledge of the revisions are choice; yet, revisions control of
recommended subject matter and audience; yet, a recommended to to phrasing are grammar and
objective; yet, more targeted improve organization, recommended to mechanics; yet,
revisions are appeal is sequence, or transitions. improve clarity corrections are
recommended to recommended to and/or for a more recommended to
improve improve professional tone. improve
effectiveness. effectiveness. language skills
and/or
professionalism.

Demonstrates Demonstrates Demonstrates a limited Demonstrates limited Demonstrates
Limited; limited knowledge limited knowledge control of structure. control of word limited control of
Substantial of the subject of the audience. Revisions in organization choice. Revisions are grammar and
revisions are matter and/or Revisions are are needed for a coherent needed for clarity mechanics.
needed objective. More needed to address structure, or logical and a professional Corrections are
relevant and/or a udience diversity transitions. tone. needed for
thorough content is and/or roles. suitable language
needed for skills and/or
e ffectiveness. professionalism.

Unsatisfactory; Does not meet the Does not meet the Does not meet the Does not meet the Does not meet
Does not meet minimum course minimum c ourse minimum course minimum course the minimum
course r equirements for requirements for requirements for requirements for course
requirements “Content” “Audience” “Logic and Organization” “Clarity and Tone” requirements for
“Grammar and
M echanics”
Score
All rights to the syllabus, course content, recordings, assignments, and instructional activities are reserved by the instructor.
### STUDENT SUPPORT: RESOURCES ON CAMPUS

# ACADEMIC SUCCESS

Carnegie Mellon University has a wide array of resources and programs to support student wellness and academic
achievement. For example, the Student Academic Success Center (SASC) is designed to provide academic coaching,
pAeCeCrO tMutMoOriDnAg,T aIsO wNSe ll as communication and cross-cultural support. Students are encouraged to use these resources.

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, please discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the mini as possible so I can offer flexibility as appropriate. If you
suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the
DOIffVicEeR oSIfT DYi sAaNbDili tINy CRLeUsoSuIOrcNe s, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

I am committed to promoting a safe and inclusive classroom environment. Please visit the Carnegie Mellon University
Center for Diversity and Inclusion for programs, events, and resources that focus on developing a respectful
cFoOmODm uSEnCitUyR. ITY
I f you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus that can help.

ECOmUaNil StEhLeI CNMG US EFRoVoIdC PEaSntry Coordinator to schedule an appointment: cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu
Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) provides a safe, confidential environment for students to talk about
personal and academic concerns. Please visit https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/ or call 412-268-2922 for more
information or to schedule an appointment.
6