# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Instructor, class, Results-Oriented Programs, the course, the Instructor, Creating Results-Oriented Programs, Students, students, Canvas
**Document Length**: 4143 words

---

# Carnegie Mellon University Syllabus as of 8/23/2024
### H. John Heinz III College

Creating Results-Oriented Programs
### Design, Evaluation & Reporting for Nonprofit & Arts Managers

Course Details Identifier Fall 2024 94-824-A1 (6 units)
Date & Time Tuesday & Thursday evenings, 5:00pm–6:20pm
Mini 1 August 26th – October 10th
Location Hamburg Hall, Room 1006
### Instructor Traci Johnson, MPM ‘21

### Adjunct Instructor, Heinz College

### Director of Grantmaking, The Pittsburgh Foundation

Prerequisites None
Course Successful programs require more than just great ideas. From a program’s initial
Description & planning and design through its execution and evaluation, program managers
Learning must deftly deploy disparate skills and work closely with colleagues, board
Objectives members, funders, and constituents to measure, understand, and discuss
programmatic results.

In Creating Results-Oriented Programs, graduate students are introduced to tools
and techniques to assist them in managing highly effective programs at small
nonprofit and arts organizations. Students explore the connections between
program theory, project budgets, requests for support, and reports on outcomes.

Students develop skills needed to build measures for success into program
activities and use quantitative and qualitative assessments to make strategic
decisions before, during, and after implementation.
### The learning objectives of this course are to enable students to:

## 1. Articulate programmatic goals through a compelling theory of

change;
## 2. Apply the basic techniques of process and outcome evaluations;

## 3. Gather and interpret relevant and useful program data;

## 4. Provide tangible and specific information about program results to

internal and external stakeholders; and,
## 5. Bring an analytic and pragmatic approach to each stage in the

lifecycle of a typical program at a small nonprofit or arts organization.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 2

Meeting Format
Course
This graduate course will progress over a period of 7 weeks and will feature a
Framework
mixture of lecture content, discussion of assigned reading materials, group
exercises, and student presentations.

Slides to accompany each lecture will be made available on Canvas prior to the
beginning of each class.

Readings
There are no required textbooks for this course. For each class session, students
will be required to read a selection of chapters, articles, reports, or other
materials as PDF files to download or web links to visit via Canvas.

Assigned readings during 6-session editions of the course average 85 pages of
material per session (low: 60 pages, high: 116 pages) and will require, on
average, 2.5 hours of preparation prior to class. Assigned readings during 7-week
editions of the course average 68 pages of material per session (low: 60 pages,
high: 102 pages) and will require, on average, 2 hours of preparation prior to
class.

Course Requirements
In-class Group Exercises
Students will complete 3 in-class group exercises during the course. Students will
be randomly assigned to groups and asked to work together through a set of
questions or activities related to that class session’s assigned readings or lecture
content. Each student group will report out the key points of discussion to the
entire class. Each group will also submit worksheets that record responses to
questions and summarize the group’s dialogue with the names of each
participating student. The group exercises will be graded as pass/fail. Students
with unexcused absences for a given class session will automatically receive a
failing grade on that group exercise.

Take-home Individual Assignments
Students will complete 3 take-home assignments during the course. Students
must complete each assignment on their own. The assignments are structured so
as to contribute toward the development of the student’s final class project (see
below). The take-home assignments will be graded as pass/fail. Students failing

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 3

to turn in an assignment by its due date without gaining prior permission from the
Instructor will automatically receive a failing grade on the assignment.

Course
Final Project
Framework
Students will complete a summative final project as a key aspect of the course.
(cont’d)
Through the project, students will demonstrate their proficient use and
understanding of concepts, ideas, and techniques developed during the course.

The final project requires students to design, plan, and prepare for evaluation a
new project or program of their own choosing based on areas in their own
interests or professional expertise.
### It includes 2 separately-evaluated outputs:

▪ Electronic deliverable, including executive summary, resubmissions of
take-home assignments, and other components
▪ In-class presentation with supporting slides
Additional details regarding the final class project will be discussed during
## Week 2 of the course. The final project will be graded using numeric scores.

Assessment & Evaluation
The Instructor will evaluate each student’s progress toward achieving the
course’s learning objectives through completion of the course requirements,
according to the following weights:
### In-class Group Exercises (3)

{
33.3%
### Take-home Individual Assignments (2)

{ Final Project Deliverable (due prior to final class session)
66.7%
Final Project Presentation (given by students during final class
session)
Aggregate performance will determine the overall final grade assigned at the
conclusion of the course using the following grading scale:
A+ 98.0% and up B+ 88.0–89.9% C+ 78.0–79.9%
A 94.0–97.9% B 84.0–87.9% C 74.0–77.9%
A- 90.0–93.9% B- 80.0–83.9% C- 70.0–73.9%
The grade of A+ is reserved for truly exceptional performance. The median grade
in the course is typically a B+ or A-.

At the Instructor’s discretion, a student’s final overall score may be rounded up
0.5% because of a student’s high level of engagement in the course as indicated
by frequent in-class participation and demonstrated comprehension of assigned

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 4

reading materials. For example, an engaged student with a final course score of
93.5% (A-) may have their grade rounded up to an A.

About Traci Johnson
Course
Traci Johnson joined The Pittsburgh Foundation in February 2022 as the Director
Instructor
of Grantmaking. She is instrumental to the Program Department’s efforts to
ensure that grantmaking is relevant, responsive, and centers the Foundation’s
values. Traci brings valuable experience in advancing racial justice within
philanthropy and the ability to use data to drive equity and accountability within
systems. At the Foundation, she oversees several special initiatives that improve
nonprofits’ ability to address human service needs.

Traci brings nearly two decades of experience in nonprofit management,
management consulting, project and change management, process improvement
and development, program design and data analysis. She is passionate about
working with small Black-led/serving nonprofits to establish their internal
infrastructure, increase their effectiveness, and access resources. Prior to coming
to the Foundation, Traci served as a program officer at POISE Foundation, a
community foundation dedicated to empowering the Pittsburgh region’s Black
community.

During her tenure at POISE, Traci developed and implemented the Foundation’s
strategy for supporting Black-led/serving nonprofits and churches during the
pandemic through the Critical Community Needs Fund. Her work led to POISE
Foundation receiving the 2021 Grantmaker of the Year Award from the Grant
Professionals Association. Traci currently serves as the Membership Chair for
PEAK Grantmaking’s Mideast Chapter. She was selected as a 2021-2022
Connecting Leaders Fellow by the Association of Black Foundation Executives
(ABFE).

Contact Information
Email Address johnsontr@pghfdn.org – tracij@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Phone 412.394.2642 (Office number for The Pittsburgh Foundation.

When leaving messages please identify yourself as a Heinz
student.)
Cell Phone 412.377.7083 (text messages/email preferred over voicemail;
no calls after 9pm, please)

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 5

Office Hours
Office hours are by appointment with a preference for meeting via Zoom or
Microsoft Teams. There is flexibility for in-person meetings at a coffee shop
either Downtown, the Hill District (CARES Café), the East End/Homewood
(Everyday Café).

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 6

### Course Summary Course Calendar

Schedule
## Week 1 Tues Aug 27 Introductions / Course Overview / Program Designers and

Managers
Thur Aug 29 Program Designers and Managers cont’d / Thought
Practice Exercise
## Week 2 Tues Sep 3 Developing Program Theory & Logic Models

Final Project Specifications
Thur Sep 5 Developing Program Theory & Logic Models cont’d
### In-Class Group Exercise #1

## Week 3 Tues Sep 10 Establishing Measures of Success

Thur Sep 12 Establishing Measures of Success cont’d
Take-home Individual Assignment #1 due at start of class
### In-Class Group Exercise #2

## Week 4 Tues Sep 17 Designing Experiments & Understanding Threats to Validity

### Thur Sep 19 Designing Experiments & Understanding Threats to Validity

cont’d
Take-home Individual Assignment #2 due at start of class
### In-Class Group Exercise #3

## Week 5 Tues Sep 24 Gathering Data & Communicating Program Results

### Thur Sep 26 Gathering Data & Communicating Program Results

Take-home Individual Assignment #3 due at start of class
## Week 6 Tues Oct 1 Guest Speaker(s)

### Thur Oct 3 Securing Resources to Lead Change

## Week 7 Mon Oct 8 Final Project Deliverable due at 11:59pm ET

### Tues Oct 8 Final Project Presentations

### Thur Oct 10 Final Project Presentations

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 7

## Week 1: Tuesday & Thursday, August 27 & 29, 2024

## Introduction / Course Overview / Program Designers and Managers

Lecture Overview
As an introduction to the course, the first session details the course framework,
requirements, expectations, and learning objectives. Students, viewed as future
program designers and managers at small nonprofit and arts organizations, are
introduced to program design, strategy, and evaluation as adaptable techniques
in the service, delivery, and reporting of charitable activities in today’s nonprofit
environment.

Optional Readings
J. Gregory Dees, “Mastering the Art of Innovation” in Enterprising Nonprofits: A Toolkit for
Social Entrepreneurs, edited by J. Gregory Dees, Jed Emerson, & Peter Economy (New
York: John Wiley & Sons, 2001), pp. 161–197. [37 pages]
Mike Hudson, “Managing Performance” in Managing at the Leading Edge: New Challenges in
Nonprofit Management, 1st edition (San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass, 2005), pp. 41–80.
[40 pages]
Course Week 2: Tuesday & Thursday, September 3 & 5, 2024
### Schedule Developing Program Theory & Logic Models

(cont’d)
Lecture Overview
The second week sessions introduce theory of change and its attendant tool, the
program logic model, as essential component of a program entrepreneur’s toolkit
for testing and developing new approaches to community challenges. With a clear
articulation of program theory, preparing for implementation and planning for
evaluation are made easier.

Assigned Readings
Carol H. Weiss, “Understanding the Program” in Evaluation: Methods for Studying Programs
and Policies, 2nd edition (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996), pp. 46–71. [26
pages]
### W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Chapters 1–3 in Logic Model Development Guide (Battle Creek, MI:

W.K. Kellogg Foundation, 2004), pp. 1–34. [34 pages]
Requirements
During the first half of class, the Instructor will introduce the Final Project. During
the second class session, students will work together in small groups on Exercise
#1 (Logic Model). At the end of class, the Instructor will discuss Take-home

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 8

Assignment #1 (Problem/Opportunity Definition), which students will complete
individually for the next week.
## Week 3: Tuesday & Thursday, September 10 & 12, 2024

### Establishing Measures of Success

Lecture Overview
Measures of success and the importance of having defensible metrics in the
current funding climate is the principal topic of the third week session.

Distinguishing between outputs, which are used to monitor a program’s process
and implementation, and outcomes, which are used to indicate a program’s effect
and impact, establishes realistic expectations for program participants and
supporters.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 9

Assigned Readings
Carol H. Weiss, “Developing Measures” in Evaluation: Methods for Studying Programs and
Policies, 2nd edition (Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 1996), pp. 114–151. [38 pages]
Peter H. Rossi, Mark W. Lipsey, and Howard E. Freeman, “Assessing and Monitoring Program
Process” in Evaluation, 7th edition (Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, 2004), pp.
169–202. [34 pages]
Peter H. Rossi, Mark W. Lipsey, and Howard E. Freeman, “Measuring and Monitoring Program
Outcomes” in Evaluation, 7th edition (Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, 2004), pp.
203–232. [30 pages]
Requirements
Students will digitally submit Assignment #1 (Problem/Opportunity Definition) via
Canvas prior to the start of class. During the second class session of the week,
students will work together in small groups on Exercise #2 (Outputs vs.

Outcomes). At the end of class, the Instructor will discuss Assignment #2
(Measures of Success), which students will complete individually for the next
class.
## Week 4: Tuesday & Thursday, September 17 & 19, 2024

### Designing Experiments & Understanding Threats to Validity

Lecture Overview
Designing experiments to gauge program impact and test hypotheses requires an
understanding of the core threats to validity, randomization techniques, and the
strengths and weaknesses of various design approaches. After selecting an
experimental design strategy, surveys, interview questions, and existing datasets
are effective, low-threshold mechanisms for program managers and evaluators to
gather relevant data on program implementation and outcomes.

Assigned Readings
William R. Shadish, Thomas D. Cook, Donald T. Campbell, “Experiments and Generalized
Causal Inference” in Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Designs for Generalized Causal
Inference (Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin, 2002), pp. 1-32. [32 pages]
### William R. Shadish, Thomas D. Cook, Donald T. Campbell, “Randomized Experiments:

Rationale, Designs, and Conditions Conducive to Doing Them” in Experimental and QuasiExperimental Designs for Generalized Causal Inference (Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin,
2002), pp. 246-278. [33 pages]

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 10

Lecture Overview
Requirements
Students will digitally submit Assignment #2 Measures of Success via Canvas
prior to the start of class. During the second class session of the week, students
will work together in small groups on Exercise #3 (Experimental Design).
## Week 5: Tuesday & Thursday, September 24 & 26, 2024

### Gathering Program Data & Communicating Program Results

After selecting an experimental design strategy, surveys, interview questions, and
existing datasets are effective, low-threshold mechanisms for program managers
and evaluators to gather relevant data on program implementation and outcomes.

To provide timely information to decisionmakers, program managers use data
visualization tools such as dashboards, diagrams, and infographics to distill
details into actionable steps to continue, change, or modify a program.

After a program is complete, new techniques in documentation and reporting,
such as multimedia storytelling, are among the most resonant ways to
demonstrate impact to supporters and the public.

Assigned Readings
Marc Bolan, Kimberly Francis, and Jane Reisman, “Data Management Planning and
Preparation” in How to Manage and Analyze Data for Outcome-Based Evaluation (Seattle,
WA: The Evaluation Forum, 2000), pp. 7-32. [26 pages]
Art Feinglass, “Setting Goals, Clarifying the Message, and Creating the PR Plan” in The Public
Relations Handbook for Nonprofits (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2005), pp. 21–45. [25
pages]
Requirements
Students will digitally submit Assignment 3 Evaluation Approach prior to the start
of class. During week 6, the Instructor will review key concepts from Sessions 2–4
of the course and students may work together in teams on an additional group
exercise.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 11

## Week 6: Tuesday & Thursday, October 1 & 3, 2024

Course Lecture Overview
### Guest Speaker(s) and Securing Resources to Lead

Schedule
Change
(cont’d)
Guest Speaker(s) TBA
During the first class session of the week, guest(s) from Pittsburgh’s nonprofit
and arts community will discuss their successes in creating results-oriented
programs.

Topics and ideas previously discussed in the course will be revisited within the
specific context of securing organizational support to advance innovative ideas,
seeking resources to design and implement new projects and activities, and
managing relationships with major funders and early backers.

Optional Readings
Harold S. Williams, Arthur Y. Webb, and William J. Phillips, Part III, Chapters 12–15 “Targets
and Accomplishments” in Outcome Funding: A New Approach to Targeted Grantmaking,
4th edition (Rensselaerville, NY: Rensselaerville Institute, 1996), pp. 113–178. [65 pages]
Requirements
At the end of class, the Instructor will check-in with students and answer
questions regarding the Final Project Deliverable and Final Project Presentation.

Students must submit their Final Project
Deliverable digitally via Canvas no later than
Monday,
October 8, 2024@11:59pm ET.
## Week 7: Tuesday & Thursday, October 8 & 10, 2024

Student Presentations
Students must submit their Final Project Deliverable by the deadline listed on the
course Canvas webpage. The document(s) must be submitted as Microsoft Word
or Adobe PDF files.

During class, students will provide oral summaries of their Final Project
Deliverable for the Instructor and their classmates. Students must submit the
slides for their Final Project Presentations digitally via Canvas by 5pm ET on
October 8th.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 12

Assigned Readings
There are no assigned readings for the final class session.

Course Students should expect that the Instructor will
Policies & ▪ Plan each class session with care so that it is worthwhile to attend;
Procedures
▪ Encourage all students to participate in class discussions;
▪ Start and end class session on time;
▪ Make lecture outlines available on Canvas no later than 1 hour before the
beginning of a class session;
▪ Answer student questions directly or make reference to resources where
answers may be found (and be forthright about lack of knowledge for
those questions that the Instructor cannot answer);
▪ Reply to emails or other messages within 24 hours on weekdays and
within 48 hours on weekends;
▪ Assign readings that adequately cover the materials and meet the
learning objectives of the course while adhering to the time expectations
for a 6-unit graduate-level course; and,
▪ Fairly assess individual and group work products against standards
common to the professional fields of nonprofit and arts management.

The Instructor expects that Students will
▪ Arrive on-time for class and remain for the entire session;
▪ Be attentive and engaged while in class;
▪ Spend an adequate amount of time on the readings each week to be
prepared for lectures and to meaningfully contribute to class discussion;
▪ Seek help from the Instructor, classmates, or university resources when
appropriate;
▪ Act with decorum and civility even when in serious disagreement with
another student or the Instructor;
▪ Prioritize this course’s requirements appropriately in consideration of
other academic, professional, and personal obligations;
▪ Provide honest responses to Heinz College course evaluation questions
and thoughtful feedback on the course materials and the Instructor
through the course evaluation process; and,
▪ Maintain or exceed Carnegie Mellon University’s high standards for
academic integrity (see next).

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 13

Academic Integrity
CCoouurrssee
PPoolliicciieess &&
This course abides by the Ethics and Discipline policies and procedures as
PPrroocceedduurreess
outlined in section 7 of the Heinz College’s College Handbook as well as Carnegie
((ccoonntt’’dd))
### Mellon University’s Policy on Academic Integrity

(http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/).

The Instructor views plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation
are viewed as extremely serious matters. Misrepresentation of another’s work as
one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious violations. The
violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a course requirement,
including take-home assignments and the final project. The punishment for such
offenses may result in a failing grade in the course and disciplinary action by
Heinz College.

Plagiarism
Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work—either with quotation
marks or footnotes. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof,
specific language, or an idea derived from the work of another person. (Note that
material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore equally subject to
the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.)
Cheating
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

▪ Plagiarism (explained above);
▪ Submission of work that is not the student’s own;
▪ Submission or use of falsified data;
▪ Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;
▪ Use of a stand-in for an exam;
▪ Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or
during an examination;
▪ Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student
for use in an assignment or exam;
▪ Unauthorized collaboration on a course requirement (collaboration must
be explicitly permitted by the Instructor to be considered authorized); and
▪ Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 14

Course Other Policies
Policies &
Late Work
Procedures
### Unless otherwise specified by the advanced express consent of the Instructor:

(cont’d)
▪ In-class group exercises must be turned in at the end of class.
▪ Take-home assignments will be accepted up to 24 hours after the
assignment was due, with a 1% penalty of assessed against the final
course score.
▪ The Final Project Deliverable will be accepted until 11:59pm ET on
Tuesday,
February 28, 2023 (24 hours after it was due), with a 2% penalty assessed
against the student’s final course score.
▪ The Final Project Presentation must be made during the class session on
Thursday, March 2, 2023, unless other arrangements are made.

Extra Credit
No extra credit will be given to individual students. Students should plan to do
well on all course requirements throughout the mini.

Incomplete Coursework
If, for any reason, a student is unable to complete Final Project by the deadlines
specified herein, the student may request that an incomplete grade be assigned.

The Instructor reserves the right to issue an incomplete grade in an instance
where a student’s submitted Final Project so evidently fails to meet course
expectations that, if scored, it would result in the student receiving a failing grade
in the course.

In either circumstance, the student and the Instructor, in consultation with the
student’s Program Director, will establish a contract detailing the work to be
performed and the timeframe in which the work must occur to achieve a passing
grade.

Licensing
Unless otherwise noted, all classroom materials created by the
Instructor, Traci Johnson, are provided for student use with a
Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International
License. Learn more at creativecommons.org.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 15

### Recording of Classroom Activities

Students may make audio of classroom activities for their personal use only. No
copies may be distributed without the express consent of the Instructor. The
Instructor may record audio for future instructional use. No video recordings are
permitted.

Electronic Devices
Please disable and/or mute the noise-making function of all cell phones and
computers before the start of class. Please use laptop computers and other
electronic devices for course-appropriate purposes, for example taking notes and
referencing reading materials. When this is not the case, please sit in the back
row so that other students are not distracted by non-class screen content.
### Preferred Name & Gender Pronoun

If a student prefers to be called a different name than what is on the class roster
or has a preferred gender pronoun, please let the instructor know at the start of
the course. If the instructor incorrectly pronounces a student name or uses an
incorrect preferred gender pronoun, please do not hesitate to correct him during
class.
### Personal Health & Safety

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this mini by
eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and
taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with
stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There
are many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of your
Heinz experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather
than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events,
or feelings like anxiety or depression, seek support from Counseling and
Psychological Services (call 412-268-2922; web www.cmu.edu/counseling/) or
consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help
getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call
Counseling and Psychological Services immediately, day or night at 412-268-2922
or the Re:solve Crisis Network at 888-796-8226.

### Creating Results-Oriented Programs | Course Syllabus Page 16

If the situation is life threatening, call campus police (412-268-2323) or 911.

Course
Policies &
Americans with Disabilities Act
Procedures
In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), all qualified
(cont’d)
students enrolled in this course are entitled to “reasonable accommodations.” If
a student has a documented disability, please contact the Office of Disability
Resources to request an appropriate academic accommodation. Students must
inform the Instructor of any special needs prior to the start of the second class
session.

Grievances
Students are encouraged to discuss concerns regarding the course or the
Instructor with their Program Director or the Heinz College Associate Dean.

Students who wish to file a formal grievance should submit their concerns in
writing to the Heinz College Dean.

Course Changes
The Instructor may change or alter the course syllabus, requirements, grading,
readings, or any other matter whenever appropriate, provided that students
receive at least one week’s notice of the change going into effect.