# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, the course, students, AI, Students, class, the class, HBH, machine learning, part
**Document Length**: 2376 words

---

# Machine Learning for Public Policy Lab 94-889
Fall 2024
Instructor: Mariana Escallon-Barrios
Email: mescallo@andrew.cmu.edu
Office: HBH 2110
Office Hours: Mondays 10:00-11:00 a.m. (HBH 2110)
Wednesdays 11:00 - 12:00 p.m. (HBH 2108)
By appointment via email
Teaching Assistants: Logan Crowl (lcrowl@andrew.cmu.edu)
Xueying Ding (xding2@andrew.cmu.edu)
Class Time & Location: Tuesday/Thursdays 11:00–12:20 pm (TBD)
Recitation Time & Location: Fridays 11:00–12:20 pm (TBD)
Course Description
This is a project-based course designed to provide training and experience in solving real-world problems
using machine learning, with a focus on problems from public policy and social good.

Through lectures, discussions, readings, and project assignments, students will learn about and experience
building end-to-end machine learning systems, starting from project definition and scoping, to modeling, to
field validation and turning their analysis into action. Through the course, students will develop skills in
problem formulation, working with messy data, communicating about machine learning with non-technical
stakeholders, model interpretability, understanding and mitigating algorithmic bias and disparities, evaluating the impact of deployed models, and understanding the ethical implications of design choices made
throughout the pipeline.

Pre-Requisites: Students will be expected to know Python (for data analysis and machine learning),SQL,
andhavepriorgraduatecourseworkinmachinelearning. Thiscourseassumesthatyouhavetakengraduate
Machine Learning courses before and is focused on teaching how to use machine learning to solve real-world
problems. Experience with git(hub) will be helpful and is highly recommended.

Course Resources
Textbook: The course will rely on selected readings from various sources and has no required textbook –
each week, we’ll have selected readings from a variety of sources, listed below.

Software: Studentswillbeexpectedtostoreprojectcodeinasharedgithubrepository, soyoushouldcreate
an account if you do not already have one (github.com). In the recitation session of week 2 the TAs will do
a presentation on Github.

You may find a number of books useful as general background reading, but these are by no means required
texts for the course:
### *  Data Science for Business by Provost and Fawcett

*  BigDataandSocialScienceeditedbyFoster,Ghani,etal. Availableonlineathttps://textbook.coleridgeinitiative.org
### *  Practical Fairness: Achieving Fair and Secure Data Models by Nielsen

### *  Fairness and Machine Learning by Barocas, Hardt, and Narayana

### *  Weapons of Math Destruction by O’Neil

### *  Exploratory Data Analysis by Tukey

Additionally,theGlobalCommunicationCenter(GCC)canprovideassistancewiththewrittenororalcommunicationassignmentsinthisclass. TheGCCisafreeservice,opentoallstudents,andlocatedinHuntLibrary. YoucanlearnmoreontheGCCwebsite: https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communicationsupport/index.html.

Course Objectives
### At the end of this course, you should be able to:

### *  Understand where machine learning fits as part of your analytical toolkit

### *  Understand the entire machine learning process (and get hands-on experience doing most of it)

### *  Learn how to use and evaluate machine learning methods (that you have covered in earlier classes) in

the context of real problems.
*  Be critical about the ethical implications of the use of machine learning in real-world applications.

Course Organization
### In general, the course will be structured around three sessions each week:

During the Tuesday and Thursday sessions, we’ll focus on structured lectures, discussions of the weekly
topic, and students’ presentations. As we move into the semester and the projects are underway, Thursday
sessions will be reserved for group meetings and project work. Sometimes groups have trouble coordinatingregularmeetingtimes,sowewanttofindawaytodedicatesomeclasstimetohelpresolvethischallenge.

During the Friday lab/recitation sessions, we’ll discuss technical skills and tools you’ll need for the project
work early in the semester and then shift to check-ins with each team to discuss the status of their project
work, generally surrounding short update assignments due on Wednesdays.

Although we’re dedicating some time in class to work with your group, please note that successfully completing the project will require work outside of class time as well and will constitute the majority of the
“homework” for the course.

Class expectations
Attendance: Everyone is expected to attend – and participate in – lectures. Students may miss two lectures with no penalty. If you anticipate more absences, please let me know as early as possible. Because
this course is focused on discussion with your classmates, attending each session is important to both your
ability to learn from the course and to contribute to what others get out of it as well.

Classroom behavior: Please arrive on time. If you arrive after the class has started, please enter quietly
to avoid distracting other students and interrupting the lecture. If you arrive more than 20 minutes late to
the class, it will count as a missed lecture. Laptops and iPads are permitted in class for taking notes or for
class activities. Please refrain from using cell phones or electronics for other purposes during class. This
might distract other students and keep you from fully understanding the material.

Participation: Participation is key to keep the class interactive. All questions are good questions. You
are all here to learn and your question might help other students. We are all responsible for creating a safe
and collaborative learning environment. For doing so, I expect you to respect each other ideas and learning
process. All of you have different experiences and knowledge to bring to the class.

Communication: Ifyouneedtocommunicatewithme,pleasecometomyofficehoursorsendmeanemail.

If you have time conflicts with my office hours, email me and we can arrange another time. I am committed
to replying to your emails within 24 hours on weekdays. For emails sent after 6:00 pm on Fridays, please
allow until Monday morning.

Assessment
Project (50%): Throughout the semester, students will work together in small groups on an applied machine learning project that will illustrate the concepts discussed in class and readings. Please look at the
project description for more details on the assignments and grade distribution.

Paper presentation and report (30%): Each student will have to present a paper and write a report of
thepresentation. Inthisappliedclass,wewillcovermultipleexamplesandthesepresentationswillallowyou
andyourpeerstohaveabroaderunderstandingofmachinelearningapplicationsforpublicpolicy. Students
will have one week to prepare for the presentation. The report should be submitted no later than 48 hours
after the presentation. On Canvas you will find the details of the presentation.

Participation (10%): Participation will be graded based on participation in class activities and discussions. Tomaketheclassinteractive,Iexpectallofyoutocomepreparedtoclass,engageinclassdiscussions,
listen to your classmates, and share your thoughts from the readings and the class activities.

Attendance (10%): Students may miss two classes with no penalty. If you anticipate more absences,
please speak with me as early as possible. For every missed class, excluding the first missed class, students
will get a penalization in class attendance.

Regrade policy: We are committed to returning work to you as quickly as possible. Our goal is to grade
assignments and return them within 1 week of the due date. All appeals for grading must be made within 2
weeks of the due date of the assignments. The appeal must be written and include the specific reason why
you believe the grade is incorrect. You must submit the written appeal to me during office hours or after
class.

Performance evaluation
The final grade for the course will consist of grades from the items mentioned above. Your final grade will
be determined by your point placement on the following scale:
### Graduate students:

94% or more A 84%-86.9% B 74%-76.9% C
90%-93.9% A- 80%-83.9% B- 70%-73.9% C87% -89.9% B+ 77%-79.9% C+ 0-69.9% R

### Undergraduate students:

94% or more A 74%-83.9% C 0-69.9% R
84%-93.9% B 70%-73.9% D
Be aware that I do not round up. That means that to pass the course you need 70% or more. This applies
to all the items on the placement scale. For example, if you get a 93.99% in the class, your grade will be an
A-. You need 94% or more to get an A.

Academic Integrity
In this class, you may use generative AI programs ONLY as a tool for your coding assignments. These
programscanbepowerfultoolsforlearningandotherproductivepursuits,includingthecompletionofsome
assignments in less time, helping you generate new ideas, or serving as a personalized learning tool.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. If you use one of these generative AI tools to develop content for an
assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work. In practice, cutting and pasting
contentfromanysourcewithoutcitationisplagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasingcontentfromagenerativeAI
withoutcitationisplagiarism. Similarly,usinganygenerativeAItoolwithoutappropriateacknowledgement
willbetreatedasplagiarism. Theuniversity’spolicyonplagiarismappliestoalluncitedorimproperlycited
use of work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI.

Itisimportantthatyourecognizethatlargelanguagemodelsfrequentlyprovideuserswithincorrectinformation, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory statements, incorporate
copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes integrate biased concepts. Code
generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image generation models may create misleading or
offensive content.

While you may use these tools in the coding work you create for this class, it is important to note that you
understand you are ultimately responsible for the content that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased,
unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be penalized.

You may not use generative AI programs for the presentation, reports, or any other non-coding assignment. You are not allowed to use an AI generator to write or get ideas for any of your presentations or
any of your written submissions. In accordance with CMU policy, it is the responsibility of each student
to produce her/his/their own original academic work. (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-studentlife/academic-integrity.html) If there is evidence that you copy from an AI generator, you will receive zero
credit for the assignment and face academic sanctions according to the University policies. You are encouragedandexpectedtofamiliarizeyourselfwiththeUniversitypolicy. Ifyouhaveanyquestionspleasecontact
me or the TA.

Other information
Accommodation
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage
you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work
with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability
Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Well being
School can be challenging at times. Make sure to take time for yourself and do activities you enjoy. The
University Provost provides the following thoughts that I believe are important to share.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising,
avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve
your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. There are many helpful resources available on campus
and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner
rather than later is almost always helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is
here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website athttp://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reachingouttoafriend, facultyorfamilymemberyoutrustforhelpgettingconnectedtothesupportthatcanhelp.

Inclusion and Diversity
We must treat every individual with respect. We at Heinz College are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Inclusion
is ensuring everyone feels respected in the environments they interact with other. Diversity, can be broadly
defined as the presence of people who identify with multiple attributes, these include but are not limited to
race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed,
ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many
others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. I
will work to promote and create an inclusive and equitable learning environment. I understand that diverse
backgrounds require different learning tools and I am committed to provide each of you with the tools you
need to grow and learn in my class.

We, atCMU,willworktopromotediversity, equityandinclusionnotonlybecausediversityfuelsexcellence
andinnovation,butbecausewewanttopursuejustice. Weacknowledgeourimperfectionswhilewealsofully
commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community
that increasingly embraces these core values. Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive
environment. The university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment on
the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after the
incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
*  Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
*  Ethics Reporting Hotline. Students, faculty, and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 844587-0793 or visiting cmu.ethicspoint.com.

All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our campus climate to
be more equitable and just.

Other university resources
Student academic success center: The center supports student success through a number of group and
individualprograms. Youcanfindmoreinformationabouttheirprogramsathttps://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/index.html. If you are unsure of what programs will best suit your needs, you can sign up for a
consultation with a staff member to identify the support you need.

CMU food pantry: Free resource committed to reducing hunger among students. For more information,
visit https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/resources/cmu-pantry/ or contact cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu
Emergency support funding: The university has several resources to provide emergency funds for students in times of need. More information about these resources and the application process is available at
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/dean/loans/

Course Plan
Theremaybeadjustmentstotheschedulethroughoutthesemester. PleasecheckthisdocumentandCanvas
regularly to keep up to date with the class schedule.

## Week Dates Topics Additional resources

1 08/27 Intro and Project Overview
08/29 Scoping, Problem Definition, Balancing
goals
08/30 Meet your team
2 09/03 Case studies and discussion
09/05 Acquiring data, Privacy, Record Linkage
09/06 GitHub tutorial
3 09/10 Data exploration
09/12 Analytical formulation of policy projects
09/13 Project work
4 09/17 Building ML pipelines
09/19 Working on your project pipeline
09/20 Project work
5 09/24 Performance metrics
09/26 Project work
09/27 Project work
6 10/01 Performance metrics part 2
10/03 Temporal validation deep dive
10/04 Group check-in
7 10/08 Feature engineering
10/10 Project work
10/11 Group check-in
8 10/18 Fall Break - No class
9 10/22 No class on Tuesday
10/24 ML Modeling in Practice
10/25 Group check-in
10 10/29 Project presentations part 1
10/31 Project presentations part 2
11/01 Group check-in
11 11/05 Democracy day - no class
11/07 Performance metrics
11/08 Group check-in
12 11/12 Model interpretability
11/14 Ethics workshop
11/15 Group check-in
13 11/19 Bias and fairness part 1
11/21 Bias and fairness part 2
11/22 Group check-in
14 11/26 Class wrap up
11/29 Thanksgiving break
15 12/03 Project work
12/05 Presentations
12/06 Presentations