# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, midnight, AI, Sept., ISLE, Canvas, CMU, Continuous Random Variables, Thursday, Friday
**Document Length**: 2101 words

---

# Course 95-796 Z1, Statistics for IT Managers (Mini 1, 2024)
### Course Description:

This is an introductory course in data analysis and statistical inference. Its objective is to provide individuals who
aspire to enter management or policy analysis positions with the basic statistical tools for analyzing and
interpreting data. For students intending to take more advanced courses in statistics and machine learning its
purpose is also to ensure that you are well grounded in the fundamentals of statistics. The course is divided into
three distinct modules: descriptive statistics, statistical inference, and regression analysis. The emphasis of the
lectures on descriptive statistics is the calculation and interpretation of summary statistical measures and
graphical methods for describing raw data. The sessions on statistical inference are designed to provide you with
the background for executing and interpreting hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. The final component of
the course focuses on regression analysis, a widely used statistical methodology. Throughout the course you will
regularly analyze data relevant to management and policy analysis using a statistical platform developed here at
CMU called ISLE.
### Instructor:

John Ostlund (jostlund@andrew.cmu.edu)
Office hours: 1:00 pm to 3:00 pm each Saturday afternoon, via Zoom
I will be available to you as much as possible via email, generally between 10:00 am and 9:00 pm, seven days per
week. I try to respond within 24 hours or less, often much more quickly. I am happy to set up one-on-one Zoom
meetings with you at our mutual convenience.
### Schedule:

Lectures: Online videos
Problem-Solving Session: Online videos posted on Friday, late morning or early afternoon
### Teaching Assistant:

Xinyu Yao (xinyuyao@andrew.cmu.edu)
Please feel free to contact Xinyu via email with any questions about the course material, homework, etc. Xinyu’s
primary job will be to grade the worksheet and homework submissions and the mid-term quiz.

Course Materials
 Statistics for Business and Economics, 13th Edition, by McClave, Benson, and Sincich.
*** You should be able to buy a used or electronic copy cheaply on Amazon or elsewhere. It's fine to use a newer or
older Edition instead, but the section numbers may be slightly different! Do not waste money on a new copy of the
most recent edition! ***
 Lecture slides, assignments, datasets, and any other class materials are posted on Canvas and ISLE.
 ISLE You will receive instructions on accessing ISLE. We highly recommend that you use either the
Chrome or Firefox browsers to access ISLE. Do not use Internet Explorer. The platform developer Philipp
Burckhardt (pburckhardt@cmu.edu) has graciously agreed to allow you to contact him directly to
resolve any technical malfunctioning with ISLE that you may encounter. Do not, however, direct
inquiries about course material or ISLE functionality (e.g., how to do a hypothesis test) to Philipp. Such
questions should be directed to the Instructor or the TA.

Evaluation Method
### Grades will be based on:

Completed problem worksheets for problem solving sessions in weeks 2, 3, 5, and 6 (can be completed as a
group but must be individually submitted): 20% (5% each)
Four homework assignments (can be completed as a group but must be individually submitted): 20% (5% each)
Mid-term quiz: 25%
Final exam: 35%
Important Note on problem worksheets: You will be required to submit your solutions by Midnight EDT on
the Thursday prior to the Friday problem-solving session. The worksheet will not be evaluated on whether
your solutions are correct. You will receive full credit for demonstrating a sincere attempt at solving the
problem. If you work in a group, you must each individually submit the group’s solution.

Important Note on homework: In your submission, include your own Andrew ID and the Andrew IDs of
anyone you worked with. Each person must submit homework.

Due Dates
Reminder: All assignments must be submitted to Canvas no later than the designated date and time. Late
homework or worksheet assignments will not be accepted.

Type Due date
### Worksheet Week 1 Midnight Thursday, Aug. 29

### Homework 1 Midnight Sunday, Sept. 1

### Worksheet Week 2 Midnight Thursday, Sept. 5

### Homework 2 Midnight Sunday, Sept. 8

### Mid-term Online Friday, Sept. 13

Worksheet week 4 Midnight Thursday, Sept. 19
### Homework 3 Midnight Sunday, Sept. 22

Worksheet week 5 Midnight Thursday, Sept. 26
### Homework 4 Midnight Sunday, Oct. 29

### Final Exam Online Friday, Oct. 11

### Frequently asked questions:

Do you curve our grades? Answer: Students’ numeric grades for homework, quizzes and the final exam will not
be curved. However, the instructor will apply a curve when deciding on the final assignment of letter grades in
order to meet Heinz College standards for mean student GPA in core courses.
### Cheating and Plagiarism Notice

We encourage you to work together on the Worksheet and Homework assignments, although you must make
your own submissions. Your answers on the final exam and mid-term quiz must reflect your work alone. These
will be online in Canvas, using LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor. Sanctions for cheating include
lowering your grade which may include failing the course. In egregious instances, the instructors may
recommend the termination of your enrollment at CMU. Don’t cheat! It is not worth it.

About Copilot or other Generative AI tools
You are welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this class. These programs can be
powerful tools for learning and other productive pursuits, including completion of some assignments in less
time, helping you generate new ideas, or serving as a personalized learning tool.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic integrity guidelines
of the university and of this class. If you use one of these generative AI tools to develop content for an
assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work. In practice, cutting and pasting
content from any source without citation is plagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasing content from a generative AI
without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any generative AI tool without appropriate acknowledgement will
be treated as plagiarism. The university’s policy on plagiarism applies to all uncited or improperly cited use of
work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI.

In my class, you may use generative AI tools however you wish for learning or for homework assignments. Since
this is a math-based class rather than a writing or discussion class, in my class you may even copy-and-paste
mathematical expressions. You must cite which parts of your homework you worked on using generative AI. You
will not lose credit for using generative AI tools, but you will lose credit for code or results that are incorrect!

Finally, it is important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with incorrect
information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory statements,
incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes integrate biased
concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image generation models may create
misleading or offensive content. (The same criticisms can be made about things you find on Stack Overflow or
other sites on the web.)
While you may use these tools in the work you create for this class, it is important to note that you
understand you are ultimately responsible for the content that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased,
unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be penalized.

You may not have any access to generative AI tools during the Mid-Term Quiz or the Final Exam. These will be
given using LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor to help prevent use of AI and other means of cheating.

Covid Mitigation Policies: You will be required to adhere to all university Covid mitigation policies in place
during Mini 1. At present, there are no such policies in place.

Late Work Policy: You are expected to turn in all work on time. Late assignments WILL NOT be accepted.

Re-grade Policy: Any requests for a re-grade must be submitted in writing via email to the instructor and the TA
within seven (7) days from when the graded assignment is returned. You must include a clear written
explanation of why the regrade is necessary. If you are dissatisfied with the decision, you should then direct
your appeal to the TA. If you are still dissatisfied you can contact Professor Ostlund to make a final
determination. If a re-grade request is submitted, we will re-grade your entire assignment, which may either
raise or lower your score. In general, we will only raise scores in cases where we have made an error in grading,
and all decisions on re-grade requests are final.
### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities:

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you
to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to
ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and
would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Basic Mental Health:

As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can interfere with learning, such as strained
relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation.

These mental health concerns or stressful events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your
ability to participate in daily activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more
about confidential mental health services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Support is
always available (24/7) from Counseling and Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Course Outline (subject to change)
## Module I: Descriptive Statistics and Probability (Chapters 1-5)

## Week 1: Course Overview, Descriptive statistics, and Probability (Aug. 26)

### Lectures:

## Module 1 Course Introduction

## Module 2a Graphical Methods

## Module 2b Numerical Summaries

## Module 3a Probability Basics

## Module 3b Conditional Probability and Independence

## Module 3c Law of Total Probability and Bayes Rule

Note: Friday review session will be split between lecturing on modules 3a, 3b and 3c as needed and a tutorial on
use of the ISLE platform
### Readings:

What is statistics? (1.1-1.3)
Types of data (1.5)
Random sampling (1.6)
Histograms (2.2)
Measures of central tendency (2.3)
Measures of variability (2.4-2.5)
Box plots (2.7)
Probability: Basics through Bayes Rule (3.1-3.8)
## Week 1 worksheet due by midnight Thursday

Homework 1 due by midnight Sunday
## Week 2: Random Variables and Probability Distributions (Sept. 2)

### Lectures:

## Module 3d Binomial Distribution

## Module 3e Discrete Random Variables

## Module 3f Continuous Random Variables

## Module 3g Central Limit Theorem

### Readings:

Discrete and Continuous Random Variables (4.1, 4.2)
Binomial Distribution (4.3)
Continuous Random Variables (4.5)
The Normal Distribution (4.6)
The Central Limit Theorem (5.3)
## Week 2 worksheet due by midnight Thursday

Homework 2 due by midnight Sunday

## Week 3: Random Variables and Confidence Intervals (Sept. 9)

### Lectures:

## Module 4a Confidence Intervals for µ

## Module 4b Confidence Intervals for p

### Readings:

Confidence interval for a population mean: z-score (6.2)
Confidence interval for a population mean: t-statistic (6.3)
Large-sample confidence interval for a population proportion (6.4)
Mid-term Quiz, online, due by midnight Friday, Sept. 15
## Module II: Hypothesis Testing and Inference (Chapters 6-8)

## Week 4: Hypothesis testing (Sept. 16)

Lectures
## Module 4c Specifying the Null and Alternative Hypothesis

## Module 4d Conducting a Hypothesis Test

## Module 4e Type I and II Errors, p-values

## Module 4f Two Population Hypothesis Tests

Readings
Determining sample size (6.5)
Large-sample hypothesis tests for the mean (6.3)
p-values (6.4)
Small-sample hypothesis tests for the mean (6.5)
Large-sample hypothesis tests for the population proportion (6.6)
Comparing two population means (8.2)
Comparing two population proportions (8.4)
## Week 4 worksheet due by midnight Thursday

Homework 3 due by midnight Sunday

## Module III: Regression (Chapters 11-12)

## Week 5: Simple Regression (Sept. 23)

### Lectures:

## Module 5a Simple Regression

## Module 5b Simple Regression Continued

### Readings:

Linear models (10.1)
Least squares linear regression (10.2)
Estimating the error of the model (10.3)
Making inferences using the model (10.4)
Coefficients of correlation and determination (10.5)
## Week 5 worksheet due by midnight Thursday

Homework 4 due by midnight Sunday
## Week 6: Multiple regression (Sept. 30)

### Lectures:

## Module 5c Multiple Regression

## Module 5d Multiple Regression Continued

### Reading:

Multivariate linear models (11.1)
Least squares linear regression (11.2)
Estimating the error of the model (11.2)
Multiple coefficient of determination (11.3)
Final Exam, online, due by midnight Friday, Oct. 11