# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, Python, CMU, this course, the code, Data Focused Python, API, campus, code
**Document Length**: 2208 words

---

# 90-819 – Python Programming II

Fall 2024 Mini 1
## Section A1: TR 9:30 – 10:50, HbH 1005

## Section B1: TR 11:00 – 12:20, HbH 1204

Syllabus
Instructor
Marty Barrett (martinba@andrew.cmu.edu)
3040 Hamburg Hall
Office Hours: M W 11:00 – 12:20, T Th 2:00 – 3:20
and by appointment
Teaching Assistants
Shambhavi Bhushan (A1)
### - Office hours TBD

Snehal Khandve (B1)
### - Office hours TBD

Description: This seven-week course is the follow-on to Python Programming I. It assumes
basic knowledge of Python control constructs, functions, files, data structures, and the numpy
library. The course will cover gathering data from various sources including web scraping, web
API's, CSV and other structured data files, and databases; data cleansing; using the pandas
library for data analysis; regular expressions and other string processing methods; classes and
object-oriented programming; and building real-world software applications.

Please note: Students who have taken this course should not take Data Focused Python. Students
who have taken Data Focused Python should not take this course.

Goals: This course has three main goals. First, it will review and reinforce basic programming
concepts in Python. Second, it will introduce methods of data input, data cleaning, data analysis,
and data visualization using Python libraries such as pandas and database access. Third, it will
give students experience in more advanced programming methods, such as object-oriented
programming and regular expressions.

Prerequisites: 90-812 Python Programming I
Prerequisite Knowledge: Basic programming concepts in Python, including variables,
operators, decision statements, looping statements, functions, files, built-in data structures, and
common Python libraries.

Course Relevance: Programming in Python is essential for data analysis.
### Course Materials:

Software

### Anaconda, Python Version 3.9 (or higher), for Windows, Mac, or Linux, available at:

https://www.anaconda.com/download/
Prefer Spyder 5, but Idle, PyCharm, VS Code, and Jupyter Notebooks are fine, too – but you
may not get as much support from me if you have problems with those others.
### Online Python Documentation and Tutorial

docs.python.org/3.9
docs.python.org/3.9/tutorial
### Recommended Textbook (available online for free through the CMU library):

Python for Data Analysis: Data Wrangling with Pandas, NumPy, and IPython 2nd Edition by Wes
McKinney, ISBN-13 979-1491957660, ISBN-10 - 1491957662
Evaluation Method: The final grade will be out of 100%. The grading weighting is:
Homework 20% 5 assignments
End of week quizzes 15% Released Friday 2:00 PM; due Friday 11:59 PM
Final quiz 10% Friday after the last class
In-Class Labs 15% Due 2 days after
Final Project 40% Group project on a topic of your choice; details later
(Note: Canvas total grade may not be accurate. You should compute your own grade.)
### Grading Scale:

97.5 - 100 A+
92.5 - 97.4 A
90.0 - 92.4 A87.5 - 89.9 B+
82.5 - 87.4 B
80.0 - 82.4 B77.5 - 79.9 C+
72.5 - 77.4 C
70.0 - 72.4 C00.0 - 69.9 R
Learning Objectives: At the end of this course, each student will be able to:
- write Python applications for data-analysis problems
- understand the concepts and use the constructs of Python libraries, including numpy, pandas,
and the re (regular expression) package.
- load, cleanse, and process data
- use Web API's and/or web scraping to download data
- create, load, and process data in a relational database
- write object-oriented programs
### Course/Topical Outline (subject to change as needed):

## Week 1: Review of programming concepts

## Week 2: Functions, Exception, Files, numpy

## Week 3: pandas

## Week 4: Data cleaning, database

## Week 5: API's, screen scraping, regular expressions

## Week 6: Plotting, Object-oriented programming 1

## Week 7: OO 2, Project presentations

### Course Policies & Exceptions

### Assignment Submission:

Everything must be submitted in Canvas by the due date/time.

If you experience upload problems with Canvas, email me your work for grading
IMMEDIATELY, AND PRIOR TO, THE DUE DATE/TIME, along with a screenshot of the
upload error. When emailing me your work, I also need you to email technical information to
validate the issue (type out what the error message is that you are receiving, computer
information, network information, file information, date/time of attempted upload, and
screenshot of error) prior to the due date/time via email to me or you will receive a 0% on the
corresponding assignment. I need the error information so I can validate your excuse with
Canvas administration – it must be validated by error logging. If you contact me about Canvas
submission issues after the due/date time, I cannot help you.
### Late Policy:

Unless otherwise stated, no assignments will be accepted late. On the rare occasion that an
assignment is announced that it can be submitted late, the assignment will be accepted with a
penalty of 10% of the total worth of the assignment per day late, up to and including the late
deadline announced. Do *not* ask me to make special exceptions for you and you alone – that is
NOT fair to the rest of the class. NO assignments may ever be delivered by email. Please do not
ask to have a Canvas assignment re-opened online for late submission. Budget for upload time to
Canvas. All assignments are due by the start time of the class which it is due (unless otherwise
noted).
### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational
opportunities for all students. CMU and your instructors are committed to your success and to
supporting Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and the Americans with
Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is otherwise qualified shall
be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under
any program or activity, solely by reason of having a disability.

If you believe that you need accommodations for a disability, please contact us ASAP, and we
will work together to ensure that you have the correct access to resources on campus to assist
you through your coursework and time at CMU.

### Academic Integrity:

Collaboration is permitted in Labs but not on any other assignments. Copying code without
citing it is cheating. Copying code from a fellow student is cheating.

You may choose to use a large language model to assist with your programming work. If you
choose to do so, add citations to your work to give credit to the LLM. Note that LLMs often
make mistakes. You are responsible for any errors or problems that may be present in the code
that you submit. The closed book exams are designed to test your knowledge and coding skills.

So, if you do use a large language model, be sure to master the material and truly understand the
code before taking an exam.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic
integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. If you use one of these generative AI
tools to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your
work, just as you should cite code acquired from any other source.

If you copy code from the Web, be sure to provide a comment in the code with the exact URL
where the code was copied from. In practice, cutting and pasting content from any source
without citation is plagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasing content from a generative AI without
citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any generative AI tool without appropriate
acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The university’s policy on plagiarism applies to
all uncited or improperly cited use of work, whether that work is created by human beings alone
or in collaboration with a generative AI. Provide as a comment in the code the exact URL where
the code was copied from.

Code that is provided by the instructors is allowed as long as the code is clearly cited as being
provided by the instructors. Of course, if you have violated the spirit of the project, you will earn
zero points.

In addition to any penalties imposed by the instructor, all cheating and plagiarism infractions will
be reported in writing to the Associate Dean for the program, the Associate Dean of Faculty, the
Dean of Student Affairs, and the Dean. They will review and determine if expulsion should be
recommended. The report will become part of the student’s record.

The appropriate people to refer to for help in homework projects are the TAs and the instructors.

They can look at your code and help you with it. See them during office hours.

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards are
supported and enforced by students, including those who serve as academic integrity hearing
panel members and hearing officers. The presumptive sanction for a first offense is course
failure, accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.” The
standard sanction for a first offense by graduate students may be suspension or expulsion. Please
see http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/ for any questions.
### Cell Phones, Smartphones and other handheld wireless devices:

Other than during class breaks, please silence ring tones and refrain from engaging in calls,
messaging or other use during class time. All devices must not be visible during quizzes.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition of concepts,
presentation format, and accuracy of information. Having done business in countries that use
languages other than English, we understand that the use of an unfamiliar language can result in
unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are not critical to the overall understanding of
the information. Therefore, we will take into account your need to
function in a language that may be unfamiliar to you. We will provide feedback as appropriate if
we feel that language or grammar you have used in assignments would be best if it were
configured in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

The Heinz School uses Carnegie Mellon University’s Canvas system to facilitate distance
learning as well as to enhance main campus courses. In this course, we will use the Canvas
system generally to post lecture notes and related documents and to receive assignments
electronically from students.
### A Diverse, Equitable, and Inclusive Course Community

We must treat every individual with respect.

We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an
equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify
ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age,
sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic
information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not mentioned here, shape
the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to
promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence and
innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we
also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a
campus community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately,
incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They
contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university.

Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile
treatment on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the
incident or after the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following
resources:
### Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion:

csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
### Report-It online anonymous reporting platform:

www.reportit.net username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following
actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform
our campus climate to be more equitable and just.
### Take care of yourself:

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many
helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning
how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone
you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services
(CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
### If the situation is life threatening, call the police:

On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
If you have questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.