# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: 10:21 AM, Heinz College Wide Courses, class, Canvas, this course, ###, the course, 11:59 p.m., 94XXX, Github
**Document Length**: 4849 words

---

# 9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
# 94870-C1

Syllabus subject to change.

Course No: 94-870, 94-470
Course Name: Telling Stories with Data
## Section: C1

### Day: Tuesdays and Thursdays

Time: 9:30 AM - 10:50 AM
Location: HBH 1006 (C1)
Professor
Chris Goranson (cgoranso@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:cgoranso@andrew.cmu.edu) ), Hamburg Hall
2105B.

Office hours will be posted on Canvas; also available by appointment.

Teaching Assistant (TA)
Sharvari Yeole (syeole@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:syeole@andrew.cmu.edu) ). Office hours will be
posted on Canvas.

Course website
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/
Course description
Data are everywhere. For policy makers, the ability to tell the right story using data can make the
difference between a successful initiative and one that fails. Part art, part science, visualizing data is
a process that is both well established in existing disciplines and experimental and rapidly changing
in others. In this course we’ll explore both ends of the spectrum as we deconstruct and reconstruct
data visualizations behind some of the world’s most powerful brands, dig into our own data in
compelling ways to help our readers understand complex issues, and finally experiment with new
ways to represent data about our work, our community, and even ourselves. This course will provide
hands-on training and experimentation with a number of tools, and students will have some flexibility
to concentrate on mediums that best match their desired outcomes for a final project deliverable
(print, digital, interactive or immersive). By the end of this course, students will have an introduction
to a number of different tools and techniques that will allow them to immediately start applying what
they’ve learned to both other coursework as well as on-the-job needs.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 1/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Prerequisites
This course is designed as a graduate-level experience for students that have at least basic
computer proficiency and writing skills. Since we'll be creating digital artifacts in this course including
publicly-available websites, you should feel at least somewhat comfortable writing narrative-driven
stories, reports, and the results of data analysis. Likewise, you should be at least somewhat familiar
with correctly citing source materials used, the basics of paraphrasing, and applications of U.S.
copyright law to images and written content. See the excellent library guide at
https://guides.library.cmu.edu/usingimages (https://guides.library.cmu.edu/usingimages) for more.

If you have questions about what I mean by all of this, please ask!

Since we work with data in this course, you should also feel comfortable working with spreadsheets,
an present a willingness to learn something slightly outside of your comfort zone. You do not need
in-depth statistics or mathematics skills, although those can certainly be helpful when conducting
your own analysis. You will also likely find additional areas of this course to explore on your own.

Learning objectives and goals
## 1. Create a publicly accessible portfolio of work.

## 2. Create data visualizations following good design practices (color, text, layout, choice of

visualization, etc.) in a digital format.
## 3. Critique data visualizations by applying various critique methodologies, and be able to justify your

own design decisions and recommendations.
## 4. Develop and present a narrative suitable for a subject audience for a selected topic that is clear,

compelling and persuasive.
## 5. Conduct user research to ensure data visualizations and the supporting narrative are being

communicated effectively.
## 6. Apply methods for explaining and presenting data, constructing and telling a story using that

data.

Course materials
There are two required texts for this course.

Berinato, S. (2023). Good Charts, Updated and Expanded: The HBR Guide to Making Smarter,
More Persuasive Data Visualizations. Boston, Massachusetts: Harvard Business Review
Press.

Berinato, S. (2019). Good Charts Workbook: Tips, Tools, and Exercises for Making Better Data
Visualizations. Boston, Massachusetts: Harvard Business Review Press.

You can purchase a discounted (PDF) copy of each text for $17.50 each (half off the list price, $35
total) by visiting the following link and registering with a free account:
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 2/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/1176378 (https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/1176378)
Hardcopy or a PDF version are options you can select on checkout, but a hardcopy of the text is
$35. Sketching exercises in this course use the Good Charts Workbook - so you may prefer a hard
copy version of that text. You are of course welcome to check prices from other providers (e.g.

B&N, Amazon, etc.) - you may find a better deal! If you do so, make sure to get the correct,
updated versions of the texts above.

Hunt Library also has both books on reserve for physical check out. (Note that the Good Charts text
is the 2016 version, we are working to get the updated version released in 2023).
https://cmu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01CMU_INST/qtqgla/alma991016735969704436
(https://cmu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01CMU_INST/qtqgla/alma991016735969704436)
https://cmu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01CMU_INST/qtqgla/alma991019894313304436
(https://cmu.primo.exlibrisgroup.com/permalink/01CMU_INST/qtqgla/alma991019894313304436)
### If you need immediate electronic access to the texts, you can access them here:

Good charts : the HBR guide to making smarter, more persuasive data visualizations
https://search-ebscohost-com.cmu.idm.oclc.org/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=1798420&site=ehost-live&scope=site (https://search-ebscohostcom.cmu.idm.oclc.org/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=1798420&site=ehost-live&scope=site)
Good Charts Workbook: Tips, Tools, and Exercises for Making Better Data Visualizations
https://search-ebscohost-com.cmu.idm.oclc.org/login.aspx?
direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=1797862&site=ehost-live&scope=site (https://search-ebscohostcom.cmu.idm.oclc.org/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=1797862&site=ehost-live&scope=site)
You will need to create your own Ebsco account, and both are limited use. So, the online access
isn't a good, permanent substitution for having your own copy, but it can help you out while you wait
for your own copy to arrive in the first week or two if need be.

Sketching materials
Sketching exercises are designed for you to further develop your understanding of color theory, data
visualization taxonomies, design and other key elements of data visualization best practices. As
such, you'll likely benefit from picking up a set of colored pens for this course. Pens are
generally preferable to pencils since you'll be posting images of your visualizations for various
assignments and they will render darker (but pencils are fine if that's what you have already).

A basic set will work just fine - I'd recommend finding one that includes a good range of colors (red,
blue, yellow, green, purple, etc.) to allow you to draw crisp, clear lines and shade areas. The CMU
Art Store has a good selection of higher-quality options that you can try out yourself if you're so
inclined.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 3/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
For most sketching exercises you're also welcome to complete them digitally using an iPad or other
device.

Other texts
Other texts sometimes referenced in the course materials are available electronically for free (some
require your AndrewID to access, others are available online). We won't use these extensively but
they're great references for you beyond the course:
Dougherty, Jack, and Ilya Ilyankou. Hands-On Data Visualization. 1st ed. O’Reilly Media, Inc.,
2021.

You can also access most of the content from the book at https://handsondataviz.org/
(https://handsondataviz.org/) , which is a pretty unusual and generous resource provided by the
authors. You can read more about their decision to make this text open access here
(https://handsondataviz.org/open-access.html) .

Knaflic, C. (2015). Storytelling with data : a data visualization guide for business professionals
. Hoboken, New Jersey: Wiley.

This text should be available as a downloadable ebook once you're logged in using your Andrew ID
and accessing it from the CMU network through the following link:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epub/10.1002/9781119055259
(https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epub/10.1002/9781119055259)
The Data Journalism Handbook (http://datajournalismhandbook.org/1.0/en/index.html) .

Accessible electronically at http://datajournalismhandbook.org/1.0/en/index.html
(http://datajournalismhandbook.org/1.0/en/index.html)
Data + Design by Trina Chiasson and Dyanna Gregory. (Website appears to be unavailable -
however you can find a PDF version of the text here (http://orm-atlas2prod.s3.amazonaws.com/pdf/13a07b19e01a397d8855c0463d52f454.pdf) ).

In addition,
Readings and videos provided on Canvas
Slides used in lectures for note-taking on Canvas
Dataset provided on Canvas or through external links
And, if you want to explore information design and develop a more personal connection to your own
data, check out:
Observe, Collect, Draw! by Giorgia Lupi and Stefanie Posavec (ISBN: 9781616897147). $13 -
19 on Amazon.

Calendar
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 4/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
## Week zero

The week before the course is a good opportunity to review the Getting everything set up guide on
Canvas, and purchasing the required texts and materials.
## Week one

** First class is Tuesday, August 27th.
### Assignments:

In-class sketching exercise. You may find it helpful to have some paper and colored pens /
pencils on hand for the exercise (although not required). You are also welcome to complete the
exercise digitally (e.g. on an iPad) if you prefer.

Controlling Color - week one sketching exercise (due 11:59 p.m., Mon 09/02)
Data visualization critique #1 (due 11:59 p.m., Mon 09/02)
In-class critique: Data viz critique #1 (due end of class, Tue 09/03)
Personal portfolio (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/03)*
* Note that the personal portfolio assignment is due on Tuesday instead of Monday. This is to give
you extra time to troubleshoot any technical issues for those less familiar with Github.
## Week two

### Assignments:

Data visualization #1 (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/10)
Crafting for Clarity- week two sketching exercise (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/10)
## Week three

### Assignments:

Assignment 3&4: Critique by Design (due 11:59 p.m., Wed 09/18)*
No sketching exercise this week
* Note that Assignment 3&4 has an extended deadline. This is to give you extra time to complete the
assignment. You should expect to spend between 7 -9 hours over the course of the week completing
this assignment.
## Week four

Mid-course feedback and assessment (~10 min)
### Assignments*:

In-class critique: part one (Tue 09/24, end of class)
Choosing Chart Types - week four sketching exercise (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/24)
Final Project, part one (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/24)
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 5/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Final Project, part one avoiding plagiarism quiz (due 11:59 p.m., Tue 09/24)
* This is to allow for an in-class critique before you turn in your work.
## Week five

### Assignments*:

In-class challenge exercise (Tue 10/01, end of class)
Practicing Persuasion - week five sketching exercise (due 11:59 p.m., Thu 10/03)
In-class critique: part two (Thu 10/03, end of class)
Final Project, part two (due 11:59 p.m., Thu 10/03)
* This is to allow for an in-class critique before you turn in your work.
## Week six

### Assignments:

Final Project, part three (due 11:59 p.m., Fri 10/11)
Cleaning up your online portfolio (due 11:59 p.m., Fri 10/11)
No sketching exercise this week
## Week seven

### Assignments:

In-class challenge exercise (Tue 10/08, end of class). See other assignment due dates from week
six.

Your attendance is required for both days, since you'll be providing a critique for the final
presentations. At the end of the presentations, we'll recap a few things we learned and talk about
where you can go from here (as time allows).
** Final presentations will be held the last week, on October 8th and October 10th during class. **
Assessments
### The final course grade will be calculated using the following categories:

### Assessment Percentage of Final Grade

Online portfolio 10%
Data visualization critiques 20%
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 6/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Data visualization workshops 20%
Final project 40%
Class participation and attendance 10%
Setting up and maintaining your online portfolio - 10%
One of your first activities will involve setting up your online portfolio. You’ll be responsible for staging
the online portfolio on-line either through one of the suggested methods discussed in class or through
an acceptable alternative method. The online portfolio will serve as your public-facing work folder,
where you’ll collect relevant data visualization critiques, workshop materials and information related
to your final project. The online portfolio will also serve as a record of your accomplishments in the
course so you can easily refer back to it later, and use it as a resource for future work and / or
whatever career path you choose.

You’ll be graded on developing your online portfolio on-time and with all the necessary components
identified when this topic is covered during the course. As the course progresses, it will be your
responsibility to keep this content fresh, reflecting your progress in the course as your work materials
evolve.

You will also be graded at the end of the course for how well you've maintained your portfolio.

Assignments - 40%
Assignments are made up a few different categories as described in more detail below. Please note
that there is also an in-class participation component to some assignments. In-class critiques and
challenge exercises will also count towards your assignments grade, which includes the data viz
workshops and the critique assignments. On the days offered, you need to attend and actively
participate in the in-class critiques and challenge exercises to receive credit for these.
### Data Visualization Critiques - 20%

During this course you’ll complete two activities related to critiquing existing data visualization
materials. In many cases these will be government reports supported by data. It will be your job to
critique these visualizations using a rubric and your own insights from what you learn during this
course to develop informed opinions and recommendations. Some data visualization critiques may
also involve recreating the original data visualization using one of the tools you've learned in the
class.

You will be graded on how well you are able to disassemble the aspects of the data visualization,
strategically identify both the positive and negative aspects of the visualization, and develop insights
about the target audience among other things. Your findings must be based in well articulated
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 7/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
insights developed from the heuristics you assemble more than subjective observations that have
little to no context on the issue the data visualizations are addressing.
### Data Visualization Workshops - 20%

The data visualization workshops will be another core component of your course, and will provide
you with a hands-on opportunity to demonstrate your proficiency in a number of tools and techniques
you learn during this course.

For each data visualization workshop, you will select a dataset and use it to tell a story. Using what
you’ve learned in class and one of the identified technical tools, it will be your job to construct a
compelling narrative and data visualization that can stand up to the critique methodologies you
learned in previous coursework. You will be graded on how well you can both articulate your story
through the data visualization as well as how you construct the elements found in the data
visualization.

Final project - 40%
The final project will be your opportunity to put everything you've learned so far into action. A core
goal of the final project will be understanding your audience and ensuring you are communicating at
an appropriate level, and telling the story using data visualization methods that are meaningful.
## 1. Part I: a project proposal. An outline of your project, copies of data, and the identified method

you'll use for presenting.
## 2. Part II: Sketches, wireframes, storyboards. User research and incorporating user feedback.

## 3. Part III: Final deliverable and presentation. The final deliverable can be a website,

presentation, interactive work, etc., and should be publicly accessible. You'll prepare and
present a lightning talk for your final presentation.

Additional information about the final project will be provided later in the course.

Workshop sketches - 10%
Workshop sketches are discussion board activities that give you a chance to experiment and refine
your own data visualization skillset. In the case a sketching exercise is waived, any remainder may
be based on participation during in-class exercises, discussions, critiques and participation in
discussions on Canvas and during class. Sketching exercises will not be accepted late as they
reflect your timely participation in the course, which is necessary for others to learn from each other
(see below for more on the course's late-work policy).

Grading Policies
Late-work policy: It's really, really important to stay current with assignments in this class as we tend
to move quickly and they tend to build on the previous assignment's materials. Please note that late
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 8/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
work for this course will not be accepted after the due date (except as specified below) unless
previously arranged with the professor to do extraordinary circumstances (for example, illness, family
emergency, out of town). This helps keep things fair for those in the class who were able to
complete their work on time, especially considering for certain assignments we'll review them in a
class following the due date.

First late assignment*: 25% penalty, if submitted within 8 hrs of original deadline. Assignments more
than 8 hrs late won't be accepted.

Second late assignment*: 50% penalty, if submitted within 8 hrs of original deadline. Assignments
more than 8 hrs late won't be accepted.

Third (or more) late assignment*: not accepted.
### * Sketching exercises, in-class activities including critiques and final presentations will not be

accepted late as they reflect your timely participation in the course, which is necessary for everyone
to learn from each other.

Re-grade policy: If you think there has been a technical error in the grading of your assignment, you
should e-mail the grader within one week of receiving the grading assignment, otherwise the
assignment will not be regraded. You must provide justification for the re-grade in writing along with
your request. Assignments older than one week will not be regraded.

Assignments posted to Github: A lot of our assignments end up being posted to Github in this
course. If you are new to Github, you should note that Github also keeps a history file, which is
essentially a running list of your edits, and the dates / times they were created. So, avoid the
temptation to edit your work after a deadline. It's really important that your assignments are done on
time, and that you're not editing your Github page after the due date. For certain assignments, this
becomes even more critical given the in-class critiques.

If you're having a problem meeting a deadline I'd prefer you just reach out to me directly.

Course Policies
### Academic Integrity & Collaboration

This course will follow Heinz College policies on ethics and discipline as stated in student handbooks.
### A specific policy of this course is as follows:

Homework assignments: Do not copy or modify homework solutions for your homework solutions.

Homework must be individual work unless otherwise stated. You may consult each other on
clarification, technical and conceptual issues, but you must do individual problem solving and derive
your own solutions, including your own computer work.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 9/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Data visualization critiques and analysis should also be your own work - not the reposting of analysis
done by someone else and / or found somewhere else on the internet. Content for your final project
also needs to be your own work, and any images used should not infringe on someone else's
copyright. It is your responsibility to ensure you adequately cite all materials used correctly in this
course. Further guidance on acceptable use of imagery can be found on Canvas.

You are not permitted to be in possession of or reference any assignments from another student or
other source either from the current semester or from past semesters, whether they are electronic or
paper. Possession of or the sharing such files constitutes an infraction of the academic integrity
policies of this course.

You are not permitted to create, edit or revise assignments submitted electronically (e.g. on Github)
after the due date. The only real exception to this is during the portfolio cleanup process the last
week of class. More information is specified in that assignment's instructions.

Working with AI tools like ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc: Working with AI tools is an emerging skill and
as such I want you to get exposure to using it to problem-solve and how it can be helpful in other
situations. Therefore, in some instances you'll be welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT,
DALL-E, etc.) in this class.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic
integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. So, if you use one of these generative AI
tools to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your
work. So, while you can use generative AI tools to do things like brainstorm and / or work to develop
a better understanding of a problem (much like you would using a search engine), cutting and pasting
content from any source without citation would be considered plagiarism. Paraphrasing content from
a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Likewise, using any generative AI tool without
appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The university’s policy on plagiarism
(https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html) applies to all un-cited
or improperly cited use of work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in
collaboration with a generative AI.
### Examples of how you might use AI tools for this class include:

Brainstorm approaches to hard-to-solve policy questions by fusing ideas and information together
Further refine ideas for a story narrative, structures, or approaches to your work
Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem
Generating images for the final project, with citation.
### Examples of unacceptable use of AI tools in this class include, but are not limited to:

Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without
quotations and a citation
Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 10/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself (this is a really, really bad
idea (https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/06/lawyers-have-real-bad-day-in-court-after-citingfake-cases-made-up-by-chatgpt/) )
Generate other content unless expressly permitted and following provided guidance (just ask if
you have ideas here)
Otherwise use or present generative AI content as your own work, when really it is not
If you have any questions about what's acceptable and what's not, you should talk to be before using
these tools - not afterwards when my options for helping you will be much more limited.

It is also important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with
incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory
statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes
integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image
generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

Finally, it is important to note that you understand you are ultimately responsible for the content
that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be
penalized.

Accommodations for students with disabilities: If you have a disability and have an
accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to
ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:access@andrew.cmu.edu) .

Statement on student wellness: As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can
interfere with learning, such as strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling
down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful
events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your ability to participate in daily
activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more about
confidential mental health services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/
(http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/) . Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling and
Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Laptops Mobile Devices: In general this is a course that uses a lot of technology, so it’s expected
that on most days you’ll have your laptop and phone with you. With that said, it’s your responsibility
to be respectful when using these devices. Keep your phone on silent, don’t talk on the phone while
in class, don’t distract others by viewing content on your laptop not relevant to the course, and no
technical devices are allowed for any quizzes or tests administered through this course unless
explicitly stated by the professor.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 11/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
### Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national
origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry,
belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others
not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately, incidents of
bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They contribute to creating an
unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university. If you experience or observe
unfair or hostile treatment, you can take advantage of the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:csdi@andrew.cmu.edu) , (412) 268-2150
Report-It (http://www.reportit.net/) online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net
(http://www.reportit.net/) username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions.

Additional Support
The Student Academic Success Center (SASC) (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/) provides a
number of resources to help students learn better. You can find the center's free workshops here
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/workshops/index.html) . Below are some additional
resources that may be helpful to students in this course (descriptions below are from SASC):
Academic Coaching (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/coaching.html) --This
program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to help undergraduate
and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists students with
time management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management, and
other skills. Request an initial consultation here
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) .

Communication Support (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communicationsupport/index.html) --Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting
as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts
including IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and
visual design, advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public
policy documents, data visualisation, and team projects. Appointments are available to
undergraduate and graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communication-support/make-anhttps://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 12/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
appointment.html) (in-person or video), attend a workshop (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/calendar.html) , or consult handouts or videos (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/other-resources/index.html) to strengthen communication skills. Specific resources
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_0K64z6Auu_bse6wmst5xamYbnrk9Ymd2QgMUKCIZSo/edit?
usp=sharing) for multilingual students are also available.

Language and Cross-Cultural Support (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/programs/language-support/index.html) --This program supports students seeking help
with language and cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual
and group sessions. Students can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning
expectations and strategies for clear academic writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and
more. Make an
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) appointment
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) with a Language Development Specialist to get individualized coaching.

Class Recordings
This class may be recorded for asynchronous access and / or remote viewing of course lectures and
activities. Recordings of course sessions are provided solely for educational use by students
enrolled in the course and may not be distributed to any other person or posted on the internet
without the express written permission of the course instructor. No student may record any
classroom activity without express written consent from the instructor. If you have (or think you may
have) a disability such that you need to record or tape classroom activities, you should contact the
Office of Disability Resources to request an appropriate accommodation.
### Course Recordings for Synchronous Classes*

* Note: This section generally only applies if the course is being taught remotely. If the course is
being taught in-person, lectures may not be recorded or posted to Canvas. For this reason it's
important to attend all in-person lectures.

Unless otherwise stated, synchronous classes taught remotely will be recorded via Zoom so that
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions.

Please note that breakout rooms will not be recorded. I will make the recordings available on Canvas
as soon as possible after each class session (usually within 3 hours of the class meeting).

Recordings will live in our Canvas website. Please note that you are not allowed to share or repost
these recordings. This is to protect your FERPA rights and those of your fellow students.

COVID-19 Considerations
Please see the university's minimum requirements (https://www.cmu.edu/coronavirus/preparingcampus/min-requirements.html) for policies and guidance related to displaying COVID-19 symptoms.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 13/14

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94870-C1: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
If you display symptoms or have been diagnosed, the current guidance is that you must stay home.

You can contact me at your earliest convenience to make alternate arrangements.
### Other things you are welcome to do to help protect yourself and others include:

entering and exiting the classroom while maintaining appropriate physical distancing,
wearing a facial covering throughout class,
sitting in the seats with appropriate spacing (and not moving furniture),
following good social distancing practices at all times,
using the sanitizing wipes available in the classroom to wipe surfaces (e.g., your desk, tablet arm)
upon entry and exit.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94870-c1?module_item_id=5806253 14/14