# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: 10:21 AM, ###, students, Heinz College Wide Courses, the class, 94XXX, addition, this class, This class, class
**Document Length**: 1739 words

---

# 9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
# 94823-A

### Carnegie Mellon University, Heinz College

Measuring Social (94-823/94-423)
### Meets Wednesday Evenings Professor: Ari Lightman

### - Location HBH1204 Office Location: HBH 2107c

Office Hours by appointment
- e-mail: aligh@andrew.cmu.edu
TA: Yiyun Chu
Office Hours TBD
e-mail:
yiyunchu@andrew.cmu.edu
Course Description
Online social activity provide new and meaningful ways for individuals to engage, communicate, and
organize as well as create, distribute and share information. As corporations explore and invest in
this area, many are finding that there is a plethora of unstructured data that can be valuable in many
different corporate functions including marketing, customer service, internal collaboration and
innovation. We often refer to this data store as having 3 Vs – Velocity, Volume and Variety. You
could also throw in Veracity. The difficulty lies in how to measure, report and justify expenditure and
activity for initiatives in this area. Are traditional measures, like ROI, applicable or does social require
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 1/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
new metrics that need to be understood and implemented. Unique social patterns, rapid evolution
and adoption of social technologies, as well as the inherent viral nature of information on the web
continues to exacerbate these issues. In addition, we will explore issues associated with increasing
levels of social platforms - profiling, censorship, de-platforming, mis and dis information, cancel
culture and regulation.

This class will explore how to measure outcomes from online social activity including brand
awareness, customer loyalty, revenue generation, community activation, etc. The class will examine
data generated both on the social web and within a corporation. The purpose of this course is to
provide students interested in the social space, real world scenarios in which corporations are looking
to understand and use these applications, platforms and processes to create and implement
strategies focused on development, engagement and measurement.

The student teams will work with one of several project sponsors to develop a methodology and
rational for a social based strategy as well as a process to measure its effectiveness. 5-7 sponsors
participate in the class each semester and students are required to interact with them in a
professional manner, develop hypothesis collaboratively, identify data needs and deliver value added
analysis, measurement schemas and experimental methodologies. Previous sponsors who have
participated in the class include: Netflix, Google, The New York Times, Target, Nike, MLG, Microsoft,
Cisco, The Pittsburgh Steelers, Sony Music, etc…The class will include a combination of lectures,
facilitated discussions, team presentations, and guest lectures.

Course Objectives
Analyze unstructured data stores to determine pattern correlations, impact and meaning
Develop project management best practices - project execution, task delegation, relationship
management, etc.

Understand online social issues including privacy, community dynamics, misinformation.
regulations and how they factor into efforts
Apply knowledge in researching, developing and presenting recommendations to sponsors
Develop and present social initiatives that are feasible, effective (value add) and demonstrable
while taking into considerations risks
Required Text
There is no required text for this class. A list of resources will be discussed during the lectures.

Software licenses will be made available to all students to enable social listening, online utilization
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 2/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
and community development.

Attendance and Engagement
This class is focused on sponsor based projects as well as class discussion, lectures, guest
presenters and participation. Participation includes active involvement in discussion, presenting
materials to the class, and sharing experiences around social. We will have guest presenters;
students need to make every effort to come to these classes and be highly engaged (minimal use of
laptops).

The class is intended to be inter-disciplinary. This class is available across Heinz. We encourage
other students from across CMU, including Tepper, Design, III, CS. Seats will be reserved for these
students
In addition, all students will be required to sign a teaming contract committing themselves to the
success of their project and the growth of individual team members. This contract will need to be
signed by all team members and a final copy sent to the instructor and TA.

Submitting Assignments
Teams are required to submit their presentations via e-mail the day before presentations are
delivered. It is strongly encouraged that students send their presentations to sponsors at least 3
days prior to delivery to ensure adequate time for review.

Each team member will need to fill out an evaluation of his or her other team members twice during
the semester. This will be done after the mid-term and final presentations and will be used to
evaluate individual contribution and focus on strengths/weaknesses in several different categories.

More information on evaluations and a sample will be provided during the semester. Evaluations are
a real key component to grading and should be given careful consideration. Evaluations can either
bring up or down your team grade and are an essential part of teamwork. This is used to factor out
free ridership within teams Failure to submit evaluation will result in a significant deduction on grading
Grading
You will be evaluated on the basis of your project work, team evaluation and in-class participation.

Since this is a project-based class, a majority of your grade will be based on your performance within
the team, the uniqueness of your approach, your interaction with your project sponsor and the details
of your recommendations.
### Deliverables:

https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 3/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Project Plan -
Team Contract -
Engagement – 10%
### Class Discussion – 15%

### Mid-Term Presentation – 15%

### Final Presentation – 60%

### Reflection Paper - Optional

Note: Your team grade will be modified to reflect your individual contribution (25% from team
evaluation). This will be done through team evaluations.

Engagement: This is inherently a subjective assessment but will take the following factors into
account:
Ability to coherently present arguments and contribute to a discussion
Ability to share information based on previous experience
Ability to discuss projects, interaction with sponsors and professor/TA
Class Discussion: Each team will be responsible for picking, researching, delivering and facilitating a
discussion for the class. These topics should focus on social and could include a wide variety of
topics (see suggested 94-823 topics list on Canvas). Teams can either pick from the list or suggest
their own discussion topic and submit their discussion topic before fourth week of class. Teams will
be responsible for developing discussion topics in a lead up to delivering their discussion in class.

Presentations: This class is an experiential learning environment. Students will be presenting their
findings, applications, algorithms, etc. to actual clients and should prepare accordingly. In addition,
students will be working with executives within corporations and need to be conscientious of their
time and needs.

Since the class is project oriented, students will not be allowed to take the class with a pass/fail
option. Students are welcome to audit the class, however they cannot take up a team slot from
another student who is officially registered.

Class Diversity
It is my intent that students from all diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this
course, that students’ learning needs be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity
that students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit. It is my intent to
present materials and activities that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age,
socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, and culture. Your suggestions are encouraged and
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 4/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
appreciated. Please let me know ways to improve the effectiveness of the course for you personally
or for other students or student groups.

Academic Conduct
Students are subject to Carnegie Mellon University’s policies on academic integrity. Plagiarism is a
serious offense and can result in failing the course and other disciplinary action. Plagiarism includes,
but is not limited to:
Presenting another writer’s work as your own;
Cutting and pasting content verbatim without using quotation marks to indicate a direct quote or
paraphrasing content without citing the source in-text using parenthetical references, footnotes, or
endnotes in addition to listing each source on the Works Cited, References, or Notes page in a
manner consistent with the format detailed in an approved style guide;
Providing incomplete or incorrect information about the source cited.

Student Wellbeing
The last few years have been challenging. We are all under a lot of stress and uncertainty at this
time. I encourage you to find ways to move regularly, eat well, and reach out to your support system
or me if you need to. We can all benefit from support in times of stress, and this semester is no
exception.

In addition, the topics that we are covering in this class are often difficult, not just intellectually but
emotionally. While I expect there to be rigorous discussion and even disagreement in the course of
our class discussions, I ask that you engage in discussion with care and empathy for the other
members in the classroom. Aim to disagree without becoming disagreeable. In this class we will not
shy away from the uncomfortable. Critically examining and assessing our most basic assumptions
and values is not just one of the tasks of being introspective but is an activity vital to living an
authentic life. I urge you to have the courage to embrace the uncomfortable in this class. In exchange
for your courage, I will work to ensure a classroom environment that supports you taking these
intellectual and emotional risks.
### Schedule of Classes and Assignments

8/28 Introduction – class, teams, sponsors and schedule. Overview of social
9/4 Community Definition, Frameworks, Social Cases + In Class Exercise
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 5/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
9/11 Brandwatch Demo, ViralMoment Demo, SNA
9/18 Project Scoping Planning and Sponsor Engagement (Triple L threat)
9/25 Class Discussion, Social Metrics
10/2 Class Discussion, Crowdsourcing
10/9 Mid-Term Presentations
10/16 Mini Break – No Class
Date Activity
10/23 Class Discussion, Digital, Social Health and Patient Communities
10/30 Class Discussion, Social Influence
11/6 Class Discussion, Previous Projects Class
11/13 Class Discussion, Social Commerce
11/20 Class Discussion, Web3, AI and Future of Social
11/27 Thanksgiving Break
12/4 Final Presentations
Class schedule and assignments are subject to change.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 6/7

9/20/24, 10:21 AM 94823-A: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
### Important Dates:

9/9– Last day to Add/Drop
10/11 – Mid-Term Evaluations due
12/6 – Final Evaluations due
12/13 - Final Materials and Reflection
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94823-a?module_item_id=5806216 7/7