# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, the course, work, Students, assistance, Adobe InDesign, 100 points, Carnegie Mellon, Academic Development, the Global Communication Center
**Document Length**: 1460 words

---

# MEDIA AND COMMUNICATION DESIGN I

Fall 2024
90-801/90-401
Tuesday/Thursday
9:30am-10:50am Wean Hall 5201
Gary Franko
Adjunct Faculty
Senior Multi-Media Designer
gf0r@andrew.cmu.edu
Hamurg Hall 1113
Course Description
The Media and Communication Design course focuses on using Adobe software programs to effectively communicate messages in printed form. The goal of this course is to use the combination of type, color, images,
illustrations and images to produce professional printed materials. The skills learned in this course can easily
be translated to other media. This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills.

Most classes will consist of two thirds lecture and one third hands-on work with the software. The software being
taught is Adobe InDesign, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop. Students will gain experience in preparing
documents that are professional in form and content. Student will learn how to design and publish products
such as posters, logos, packaging, signs, flyers, magazines, annual reports, invitations and advertisements.

Students will also learn the terminology, procedures and production requirement to effectively communicate
with ad agencies, design firms and commercial printers.

Course Structure
*  Class will usually consist of two thirds lecture and one third hands-on work with the software.
*  Class attendance and participation is critical to learning in this class.
*  I strongly suggest the purchasing of a USB - Jump - Flash portable storage device.
*  Students are subject to Carnegie Mellon University’s policies on academic integrity.

Plagiarism is a serious offense that can result in the student failing the course. Note that all academic
integrity violations will be reported to the Associate Dean. Additional penalties may be imposed.

Objectives
By the end of the class you will be able to...
*  Create professional material using a variety of Adobe software.
*  Be able to effectively communicate to your target audience using printed materials.
*  Become familiar with graphic design principles.
*  Become familiar with graphic design/desktop publishing terminology.
*  Be able to effectively communicate with ad agencies, design firms and commercial printers.

Date Topics
### *  August 27 Introduction to Media and Communication Design

### *  August 29 Graphic Design Fundamentals: Type - Color - Images

### *  September 3 Adobe InDesign Introduction: Tool Box - Palettes - Type

### *  September 5 Adobe InDesign: AI - Images - Color

### *  September 10 Adobe InDesign: Creating an engaging event poster

### *  September 12 Logo Design - Branding - Identity

### *  September 17 Adobe Illustrator Introduction: Tools - Palettes - Features

### *  September 19 Adobe Illustrator Introduction: Type - Shapes - Libraries - AI

### *  September 24 Adobe Illustrator: Creating professional logos with Illustrator

### *  September 26 Adobe Photoshop Introduction: Tools - Palettes - Features

### *  October 1 Adobe Photoshop Introduction: AI - Type - Images - Color

### *  October 3 Adobe Photoshop: Creating a Movie Poster with Photoshop

### *  October 8 Creating a Magazine cover

### *  October 10 Creating a Magazine inside spread

### * Dates and subjects may change

Assignments due dates
*  Monday, Sept. 16 InDesign Event Poster project due
*  Monday, Sept. 30 Illustrator Logo Design project due
*  Monday, Oct. 7 Photoshop Movie Poster project due
*  Friday, Oct. 11 Final Magazine cover and inside spread due
Late assignments will not be accepted unless permission is granted ahead of time.

Grading
### *  InDesign Poster Project 100 points

### *  Illustrator Logo Project 100 points

### *  Photoshop Postcard Project 100 points

### *  Final Magazine Project 100 points

A+ 98-100% Exceptional
A 92-98% Excellent
A- 87-92% Very Good
B+ 84-87% Good
B 80-84% Acceptable
B- 75-80% Poor

### Carnegie Mellon University Policy on Academic Integrity

http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Academic%20Integrity.htm
Students at Carnegie Mellon are engaged in intellectual activity consistent with the highest standards of the academy. The relationship between students and instructors and their shared commitment to overarching standards of respect, honor and transparency
determine the integrity of our community of scholars. The actions of our students, faculty and staff are a representation of our
university community and of the professional and personal communities that we lead. Therefore, a deep and abiding commitment
to academic integrity is fundamental to a Carnegie Mellon education. Honesty and good faith, clarity in the communication of core
values, professional conduct of work, mutual trust and respect, and fairness and exemplary behavior represent the expectations for
ethical behavior for all members of the Carnegie Mellon community.

Policy Statement
In any manner of presentation, it is the responsibility of each student to produce her/his own original academic work. Collaboration
or assistance on academic work to be graded is not permitted unless explicitly authorized by the course instructor(s). Students may
utilize the assistance provided by Academic Development, the Global Communication Center, and the Academic Resource Center
(CMU-Q) unless specifically prohibited by the course instructor(s). Any other sources of collaboration or assistance must be specifically authorized by the course instructor(s).

In all academic work to be graded, the citation of all sources is required. When collaboration or assistance is permitted by the course
instructor(s) or when a student utilizes the services provided by Academic Development, the Global Communication Center, and the
Academic Resource Center (CMU-Q), the acknowledgement of any collaboration or assistance is likewise required. This citation
and acknowledgement must be incorporated into the work submitted and not separately or at a later point in time. Failure to do so is
dishonest and is subject to disciplinary action.

Instructors have a duty to communicate their expectations including those specific to collaboration, assistance, citation and acknowledgement within each course. Students likewise have a duty to ensure that they understand and abide by the standards that apply in
any course or academic activity. In the absence of such understanding, it is the student’s responsibility to seek additional information
and clarification.

Policy Violations
### Cheating occurs when a student avails her/himself of an unfair or disallowed advantage which includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Theft of or unauthorized access to an exam, answer key or other graded work from previous course offerings.

## 2. Use of an alternate, stand-in or proxy during an examination.

## 3. Copying from the examination or work of another person or source.

## 4. Submission or use of falsified data.

## 5. Using false statements to obtain additional time or other accommodation.

## 6. Falsification of academic credentials.

Plagiarism is defined as the use of work or concepts contributed by other individuals without proper attribution or citation. Unique
ideas or materials taken from another source for either written or oral use must be fully acknowledged in academic work to be
graded. Examples of sources expected to be referenced include but are not limited to:
Text, either written or spoken, quoted directly or paraphrased.

Graphic elements.

Passages of music, existing either as sound or as notation.

Mathematical proofs.

Scientific data.

Concepts or material derived from the work, published or unpublished, of another person.

Unauthorized assistance refers to the use of sources of support that have not been specifically authorized in this policy statement or
by the course instructor(s) in the completion of academic work to be graded. Such sources of support may include but are not limited
to advice or help provided by another individual, published or unpublished written sources, and electronic sources. Examples of
unauthorized assistance include but are not limited to:
## 1. Collaboration on any assignment beyond the standards authorized by this policy statement and the course instructor(s).

## 2. Submission of work completed or edited in whole or in part by another person.

## 3. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information or materials, including graded work and answer keys from previous

course offerings, in any way to another student.
## 4. Use of unauthorized information or materials, including graded work and answer keys from previous course offerings.

## 5. Use of unauthorized devices.

## 6. Submission for credit of previously completed graded work in a second course without first obtaining permission from the

instructor(s) of the second course. In the case of concurrent courses, permission to submit the same work for credit in two courses
must be obtained from the instructors of both courses.

Procedures for dealing with allegations of these policy violations are detailed in the university’s Academic Disciplinary Action Procedures for Undergraduate Students and the Academic Disciplinary Action Procedures for Graduate Students, which are published
in The WORD student handbook. Periodic review of these procedures will be overseen by the Dean of Student Affairs or her/his
designee in consultation with Faculty Senate and the relevant student governing bodies. Any amendments to these procedures are
subject to the approval of Faculty Senate. Additional guidelines and procedures for graduate students may exist at the college/department/program level, in which case they are communicated in the college/department/program graduate student handbook.