# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Sept., Tuesday, Midnight EST, midnight EST, ISLE, Gradescope, Friday, CMU, Module
**Document Length**: 1967 words

---

# 95-796, Statistics for IT Managers & Intermediate Statistics (90-777) (Fall 2024)
### Course Description:

This is an introductory course in data analysis and statistical inference. Its objective is to provide individuals who
aspire to enter management or policy analysis positions with the basic statistical tools for analyzing and
interpreting data. For students intending to take more advanced courses in statistics and machine learning its
purpose is also to ensure that you are well grounded in the fundamentals of statistics. The course is divided into
three distinct modules: descriptive statistics, statistical inference, and regression analysis. The emphasis of the
lectures on descriptive statistics is the calculation and interpretation of summary statistical measures and
graphical methods for describing raw data. The sessions on statistical inference are designed to provide you with
the background for executing and interpreting hypothesis tests and confidence intervals. The final component of
the course focuses on regression analysis, a widely used statistical methodology. Throughout the course you will
regularly analyze data relevant to management and policy analysis using a statistical platform developed here at
CMU called ISLE.

Instructors
Eli Ben-Michael (ebenmichael@cmu.edu)
Office hours: 10am – 11am Monday and 2pm – 3pm Tuesday. HbH 2118D
Andy Garin (agarin@andrew.cmu.edu)
Office hours: 4-5PM Wednesday and 2-3PM Friday. HbH 2224
Daniel Nagin (dn03@andrew.cmu.edu)
Office hours: 3pm-4pm Monday and 1pm-2pm Thursday. HbH 2213
### Schedule 95-796:

A: Mon-Wed 3:30pm-4:50pm, HbH 1202
Fri 9:30am-10:50 am, HbH 1206
B: Mon-Wed 2pm-3:20pm HbH 1206
Fri 9:30am-10:50am-, A301
C: Mon-Wed 9:30am-10:50am HbH 1206
Fri 3:30pm-4:50pm, A301
D: Tue-Thu 3:30pm-4:50pm HbH 1206
Fri 9:30am-10:50pm, A301
E: Tue-Thu 2:00pm-3:20pm HbH 1204
Fri 9:30am-10:50am A301
F: Mon-Wed 11:00am-12:20pm HbH 1206
Fri 3:30pm-4:50pm-11:30am, A301
### Schedule 90-777:

A: Mon-Wed 9:30am - 10:50am HbH 1202
Fri 3:30pm - 4:50pm HbH A301

B: Mon-Wed 5:00pm - 6:20pm HbH 1202
Fri 3:30pm - 4:50pm HbH 1206
### Teaching Assistants:

### Name Email Student Last Name for

Assignment Clarification
Questions
Andre Ribeiro acardoso@andrew.cmu.edu A-H
Cardoso
Lindsay Graff lgraff@andrew.cmu.edu I-M
Logan Crowl lcrowl@andrew.cmu.edu N-U
Johnna Sundberg jsundbe@andrew.cmu.edu V-Z
TA Remote Office Hours begin on Tuesday, Sept. 3
TA Hours (All Remote)
### *  Logan: Monday 10:30am-noon

### *  Lindsay: Monday 7pm-8:30pm

### *  Johnna: Tuesday 10:30am-noon

### *  Andre: Tuesday 5pm-7pm

Course Materials
*  Statistics for Business and Economics, 11th Edition, by McClave, Benson, and Sincich.
*** You should be able to buy a used copy cheaply on Amazon, etc. It's fine to use the newer 12th Edition, or the
older 9th or 10th Edition instead, but the section numbers may be slightly different! ***
*  Lecture slides, assignments, datasets, and any other class materials are posted on Canvas and ISLE.
*  ISLE You will receive instructions on accessing ISLE. We highly recommend that you use either the
Chrome or Firefox browsers to access ISLE. Do not use Internet Explorer. The platform developer Philipp
Burckhardt (pburckhardt@cmu.edu) has graciously agreed to allow you to contact him directly to
resolve any technical malfunctioning with ISLE that you may encounter. Do not, however, direct
inquiries about course material or ISLE functionality (e.g., how to do a hypothesis test) to Philipp. Such
questions should be directed to a TA.

Evaluation Method
### Grades will be based on:

Completed problem worksheets for problem solving sessions in weeks 2, 3, 5, and 6: 20% (5% each)
Four homework assignments (completed without the assistance of others): 20% (5% each)
Mid-term quiz: 25%
Final exam: 35%

Important Note on problem worksheets: You will be required to submit your solutions by Midnight EST on
the Thursday prior to the Friday problem solving session. The worksheet will not be evaluated on whether
your solutions is correct. You will receive full credit for demonstrating a sincere attempt at solving the
problem. If you work in a group, you must individually submit the group’s solution.

Reminder: All assignments must be submitted through Gradescope no later than the designated time. Late
homework or worksheet assignments will not be accepted. **Please refer to the Gradescope guide located on
Canvas for instructions on how to submit your work properly. Failure to follow directions can lead to mis-graded
assignments!**
Type Due date
### Worksheet Week 2 Midnight EST, Thursday, Sept. 5

### Homework 1 Midnight EST Tuesday Sept. 10

### Worksheet Week 3 Midnight EST Thursday, Sept. 12

### Homework 2 Midnight EST Tuesday Sept. 17

Mid-term Scheduled review session on Friday, Sept 20
Worksheet week 5 Midnight EST Thursday, Sept. 26
### Homework 3 Midnight EST Tuesday, Oct. 1

Worksheet week 6 Midnight EST Thursday, Oct. 3
### Homework 4 Midnight EST Tuesday Oct 8

### Final Exam Friday, Oct. 11 Time TBD

### Frequently asked questions:

Do you curve our grades? Answer: Students’ numeric grades for homework, quizzes and the final exam will not
be curved. However, the instructor will apply a curve when deciding on the final assignment of letter grades in
order to meet Heinz College standards for mean student GPA in core courses.
### Cheating and Plagiarism Notice

Completed homework assignments must be your work alone. Also, your answers on the final exam and midterm quiz must reflect your work alone. Sanctions for cheating include lowering your grade which may include
failing the course. In egregious instances, the instructors may recommend the termination of your enrollment at
CMU. Don’t cheat! It is not worth it.

Use of generative AI tools
To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course without the use of
generative artificial intelligence (AI). Refrain from using AI tools to generate any content (text, video, audio,
images, code, etc.) for worksheets, homework, or exams. Passing off any AI generated content as your own (e.g.,
cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation
of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course please
discuss with your assigned instructor—Prof. Ben-Michael, Garin or Nagin.

Late Work Policy: You are expected to turn in all work on time. Late assignments WILL NOT be accepted.

Re-grade Policy: Any requests for a re-grade must be submitted in writing via Gradescope within seven (7) days
from when the graded assignment is returned. You must include a clear written explanation of why you think
your answer was not properly graded, within the comment section of Gradescope. Regrade requests without
such an explanation will be automatically denied. If you are dissatisfied with the decision, you should then
redirect your appeal to your assigned TA. If you are still dissatisfied you can contact your assigned instructor—
Prof. Ben-Michael, Garin or Nagin. If a re-grade request is submitted, we may re-grade your entire assignment,
which may either raise or lower your score. In general, we will only raise scores in cases where we have made an
error in grading, and all decisions on re-grade requests are final.

E-mail Questions Policy: To balance the workload fairly among the teaching assistants, and to ensure a
reasonable response time for questions received via e-mail, each student has been assigned one TA as a "first
contact". This is the person that you should e-mail first with any questions that you might have regarding the
course material, policies, etc. We will do our best to answer questions within 24 hours, or 48 hours on
weekends. First contacts are assigned based on your last name. For lasts names beginning with A-H email
Andre Ribeiro Cardoso acardoso@andrew.cmu.edu, for I-M email Lindsay Graff lgraff@andrew.cmu.edu, N-U
email Logan Crowl (lcrowl@andrew.cmu.edu), for V-Z email and Johnna Sundberg
(jsundbe@andrew.cmu.edu) for V-Z
### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities:

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, we encourage
you to discuss your accommodations and needs with your assigned instructor as early in the semester as
possible. We will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that
you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, we encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Basic Mental Health:

As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can interfere with learning, such as strained
relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation.

These mental health concerns or stressful events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your
ability to participate in daily activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more
about confidential mental health services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Support is
always available (24/7) from Counseling and Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Course Outline

## Module I: Descriptive Statistics and Probability (Chapters 1-4)

## Week 1: Course Overview and Descriptive statistics (Aug. 26-Aug. 30)

### Lectures:

## Module 1 Course Introduction

## Module 2a Numerical Summaries

## Module 2b Graphical Methods

## Module 3a Probability Basics

## Module 3b Conditional Probability and Independence

Note: Friday review session will be split between lecturing on modules 3a and 3b as needed and a tutorial on use
of the ISLE platform
### Readings:

What is statistics? (1.1-1.3)
Types of data (1.5)
Random sampling (1.6)
Histograms (2.2)-
Measures of central tendency (2.4)
Measures of variability (2.5-2.6)
Box plots (2.8)
## Week 2: Probability (Sept 4-6)

### NO CLASS SEPT. 2 OR 3

### Lectures:

## Module 3c Law of Total Probability and Bayes Rule

## Module 3d Discrete Random Variables

### Reading:

Bayes' Theorem (3.8)
Discrete Random Variables (4,1-4.3)
## Week 2 worksheet due by Midnight EST, Thursday, Sept. 5

## Week 3: Random Variables and Confidence Intervals (Sept. 9-Sept. 13)

### Lectures:

## Module 3e Binomial Random Variables

## Module 3f Continuous Random Variables

## Module 3g Central Limit Theorem

## Module 4a Confidence Intervals for µ

### Readings:

Binomial random variables (4.3)
Continuous random variables (4.5)
The Uniform distribution (4.9)
The Normal distribution (4.6)
Central Limit Theorem (4.11)

Large-sample confidence intervals for the mean (5.2)
Homework 1 due by midnight EST Tuesday Sept. 10.
## Week 3 worksheet due by Midnight EST Thursday, Sept. 12

Hypothesis Testing and Inference (Chapters 5-7)
## Week 4: Confidence intervals and Hypothesis Testing (Sept. 16-Sept. 20)

### Lectures:

## Module 4b Confidence Intervals for p

## Module 4c Specifying the Null and Alternative Hypothesis

### Readings:

Small-sample confidence intervals for the mean (5.3)
Large-sample confidence intervals for the population proportion (5.4)
Determining the sample size (5.5)
## Introduction to hypothesis testing (6.1-6.2)

Homework 2 due by midnight EST Tuesday, Sept 17.

Mid-term quiz on Friday, Sept 20 during problem solving session time.
## Week 5: Hypothesis testing (Cont.) & Regression Sept. 23-Sept. 27)

Lectures
## Module 4d Conducting a Hypothesis Test

## Module 4e Type I and II Errors, p-values

## Module 4f Two Population Hypothesis Tests

## Module 5a Simple Regression

Readings
Large-sample hypothesis tests for the mean (6.3)
p-values (6.4)
Small-sample hypothesis tests for the mean (6.5)
Large-sample hypothesis tests for the population proportion (6.6)
Comparing two population means (7.2)
Comparing two population proportions (7.4)
Linear models (10.1)
Least squares linear regression (10.2)
## Week 5 worksheet due by Midnight EST Thursday, Sept. 26

## Module III: Regression (Chapters 10-11)

## Week 6: Simple Regression and Multiple Regression (Sept. 30-Oct. 4)

### Lectures:

## Module 5b Simple Regression Continued

## Module 5c Multiple Regression

### Readings:

Estimating the error of the model (10.3)
Making inferences using the model (10.4)
Coefficients of correlation and determination (10.5)
Homework 3 due by midnight EST Tuesday, Oct. 1
## Week 6 worksheet due by Midnight pm EST Thursday, Oct. 3

## Week 7: Multiple regression (Oct. 7-Oct. 11)

### Lectures:

## Module 5d Multiple Regression Continued

### Reading:

Multivariate linear models (11.1)
Least squares linear regression (11.2)
Estimating the error of the model (11.2)
Multiple coefficient of determination (11.3)
Homework 4 due by midnight EST Tuesday Oct. 8
Final exam Friday, Oct. 11th (Time TBD)