# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, NoSQL, Students, Research Report, 25%, This course, students, databases, Labs, November
**Document Length**: 1431 words

---

# NoSQL Database Management
### MISM Course F24-95-737 B2

Fall 2024
Carnegie Mellon University
Instructor: Dan Costa
E-mail: dlcosta@andrew.cmu.edu
Virtual Office Hours: By appointment, email to schedule
Web site: https://cmu.instructure.com/
Textbooks
*  Dan Sullivan. NoSQL for Mere Mortals. Addison-Wesley Professional. 2015. ISBN: 0134023218 (DS)
*  Guy Harrison. Next-Generation Databases. Apress. 2016. ISBN: 9781484213292 (GH)
Prerequisites and Requirements
Prerequisite: 95-703, Database Management
Requirement: Students MUST have a computer with the ability to install a virtual machine.

Note: This course will include labs that involve the installation, configuration and programming of multiple
databases. It is strongly recommended that students have some experience with programming languages (e.g. Java,
Python, HTML, SQL) and command-line interfaces (Windows Command Prompt, Unix shell).

Course Description
The widespread emergence of big data storage needs has driven the development and adoption of a new class of
non-relational databases commonly referred to as NoSQL databases. This course will explore the origins of NoSQL
databases and the characteristics that distinguish them from traditional relational database management systems.

Core concepts of NoSQL databases will be presented, followed by an exploration of how different database
technologies implement these core concepts. We will take a closer look at 1-2 databases from each of the four main
NoSQL data models (key-value, column family, document, and graph), highlighting the business needs that drive
the development and use of each database. Finally, we will present criteria that decision makers should consider
when choosing between relational and non-relational databases and techniques for selecting the NoSQL database
that best addresses specific use cases.

Learning Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Demonstrate competency in designing NoSQL Final Exam, Labs, Assignments
database management systems.

Demonstrate competency in describing how NoSQL Final Exam, Labs, Assignments, Research Report
databases differ from relational databases from a
theoretical perspective.

Demonstrate competency in selecting a particular Final Exam, Labs, Assignments
NoSQL database for specific use cases.

Schedule
(tentative, subject to change during semester)
### Date Lecture / Lab Readings / References

## Week of October 21 Introduction / NoSQL Database DS: Ch. 1-2

### Theory GH: Ch.1, 3

## Week of October 28 Key-Value Databases DS: Ch. 3-5

### Redis Lab GH: Ch. 7

## Week of November 4 Document Stores DS: Ch. 6-8

### MongoDB Lab GH: Ch. 4

## Week of November 11 Column Family Stores DS: Ch. 9-11

### Cassandra Lab GH: Ch. 6

## Week of November 18 Graph Databases DS: Ch. 12-14

### Neo4j Lab GH: Ch. 5

## Week of Week of November 25 The Database Landscape / DS: Ch. 15

### Choosing a NoSQL Database

### December 5-6 Final Exam

### Assignments / Research Report

There will be 2 assignments based on topics covered in lectures and your work with the tools in the lab sessions. In
addition, there will be a research report due on week 6. Students will select a topic germane to NoSQL databases for
independent research, submit the topic for approval, and develop a 5-8 page report on their chosen topic. A draft
version of each report will be peer reviewed by another student in the class. Following is a list of due dates for each
assignment:
Item Due Date
Homework 1 – Distributed Database Management Systems October 28@11:59 PM EST
Lab 1 – Redis November 4@11:59 PM EST
Lab 2 – MongoDB November 11@11:59 PM EST
Lab 3 – Cassandra November 18@11:59PM EST
First Draft of Research Report November 18@11:59PM EST
Homework 2 - Aggregate Oriented Design November 18@11:59 PM EST
Lab 4 – Neo4j November 25@11:59 PM EST
Peer Reviews of Research Reports November 25@11:59 PM EST
Final Version of Research Report December 2@11:59 PM EST
Evaluation Method
Labs: 15%
Assignments: 25%
Research Report: 25% (80% final version, 10% peer review completion, 10% first draft submission)
Final Exam: 35%
Students will only have 2 weeks after an assignment or exam is returned to question or challenge a grade. After
the two-week challenge period, the grade will not be changed. Please contact the instructor if you wish to question a
grade.

Grading Scale
### 100 - 98 A+

### 97 - 92 A

### 91 - 90 A89 - 88 B+

### 87 - 82 B

### 81 - 80 B79 - 78 C+

### 77 - 72 C

### 71 - 70 CGrade Distribution

I plan on using the Heinz School guidelines in deciding on the overall grade distribution. Accordingly, the average
grade will be an A-. However, I grade on an absolute scale. If every student does well in the class, each will get an
A+ regardless of the recommended grading scale. The same holds true on the other end of the scale.

Final Exam
The final exam will cover material from the entire course. The exam will be open-book, open-notes, and
administered as a Canvas quiz. Students will be able to complete the exam during any 2-hour window between
12:00 AM Thursday, December 5 and 11:59 PM Friday, December 6.

Late assignment policy
Homework is due at 11:59 PM EST on the assigned due date. I WILL NOT accept late homework unless the student
has made arrangements with me prior to the assignment's due date. PRIOR ARRANGEMENTS MUST BE MADE
NO LATER THAN 12 PM ON THE DUE DATE.

Policy on cheating and plagiarism
This course follows Heinz School and Carnegie Mellon policies for student conduct, including policies that address
inappropriate student collaboration and plagiarism. Each student is responsible for handing in their own work. For
any assignment found to be the partial or complete result of cheating or plagiarism, your grade for that assignment
will be zero. Cheating is defined as inappropriate collaboration among students on an assignment. This can include
copying someone else’s work with or without alteration. When students are found to be collaborating in this way,
BOTH will pay the penalty regardless of who originated the work.

Student Wellness
Take care of yourself, and each other! Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress. All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone.

There are many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning
how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone you know
experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage
you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their
website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust
for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to
discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure
that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit
from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact
them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### How to Succeed in This Class

## 1. Get started on the research project as soon as possible. Even just spending some time in week 1 thinking about

topics you may be interested in learning more about can make a significant difference.
## 2. Do not get stuck on syntax when working on labs and homework assignments. If you find yourself spending

large amounts of time troubleshooting syntax errors for a query, reach out to me or one of the teaching
assistants.
## 3. Complete the assigned readings for each week, if not before the class for which they are assigned, then after

that class and before the next.
## 4. Use office hours productively. Get feedback on outlines of your research reports, suggestions for references,

tips on homework or lab questions, and clarifications of lecture materials. Make sure you are comfortable
applying the concepts and lessons learned from course case studies to new requirements or use cases.
## 5. Complete as much of the research project for the first draft as possible. In the two weeks between the deadlines

for first draft and final draft submissions, four additional assignments are due. If you feel your research project
would benefit from accessing future week’s lecture materials or supplemental information, please don’t hesitate
to ask for it.
4