# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, this course, Canvas, class, risk management, CMU, Students, the course, Carnegie Mellon University, English
**Document Length**: 2685 words

---

# 95-755 and 95-455

### Information Systems Risk Management

Spring 2025 Syllabus
Revised: October 2024
# COURSE SYLLABUS

Some changes may occur to the syllabus during the semester depending on timing and other
events that may arise.

Instructor: Brett Tucker
### Technical Manager, CERT, Carnegie Mellon University

Email: brettt@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours: Contact me by email or telephone to arrange any meetings.

Class Meetings: Mondays from 6:30 PM - 9:20 PM (EST)
Class Location: TBD
Course Code/Title: 95-755 Cyber Risk Management
### Class Section: Spring Mini

Description: This course examines risk management and its application to information
security. The course will help the student identify information security risks, evaluate those
risks, and make risk-based decisions given organizational resource constraints. Students will
learn foundational concepts in risk management and will be introduced to risk management
standards and approaches, both qualitative and quantitative, for risk analysis.

The purpose of this course is to assist professionals in understanding risk management and
enabling them to leverage those principles to make an organization more resilient to
operational disruptions and other perils.

Prerequisite: None
### Optional Text Books:

NOTE: ALL COURSE MATERIALS ARE PROVIDED IN CANVAS. These texts are
suggested for additional reference only.

Freund, J., & Jones, J. (2015). Measuring and managing information risk: A FAIR
approach. (ISBN 9780127999326)
Douglas W. Hubbard & Richard Seiersen. How to Measure Anything in Cybersecurity
Risk. (ISBN: 9781119085294)
Course Pack – Documents will be released systematically to the class throughout the course
of the semester via Canvas.

Software: Microsoft Excel or any other spreadsheet equivalent should be adequate.
### LEARNING OUTCOMES:

### Students who complete this course successfully will be able to do the following:

 Build on a foundational understanding of risk management to include the definitions of risk,
related elements, risk management, response, etc.
 Identify standards and other literature that provide direction on how to conduct analysis and
manage uncertainty.
 Implement the OCTAVE Allegro and FORTE process methodologies.
 Explore the use of other methodologies and tools for risk management.
 Research and analyze those factors that are important to the successful implementation of a risk
management program within an organization.
 Develop and justify practical strategies, tools and practices that can lead to an adaptive
approach to risk management in a variety of settings, scales, and diverse industry applications.
### COURSE REQUIREMENTS:

Class Participation: 10% of total grade (10 points)
Real-world risk managers are expected to attend and participate in all meetings that are
concerned with the management of their program and to conduct themselves professionally at
those meetings. Students in this course are considered to be professionals who are learning the
art and science of risk management. As this is the case, behavior during any interactions via
classroom discussion, message boards, or otherwise that either violates a course or university
policy, or that negatively affects the ability of other students to concentrate or participate, will
involve deductions in points that are appropriate. Participation will be a factor in your final
grade.

Participation
Participation is based on quality over quantity. Participation can come in many forms. Inquiry
via message board discussion, Canvas Discussions, announcements, virtual presentations – these
are valid ways to participate in class. This percentage is to encourage you to be active in this
course and to draw out thoughts, comments, and opinions. I will be tracking participation
closely.

Readings
Directed reading will be updated every week of class.

Tests: 40% of total grade (40 points)
 One test will be given during the session
Group Project & Assignments: 50% of total grade (50 points)
 Groups may consist of no more than 5 students unless special permission is granted by me –
groups will be assigned.
o Assignments only need to be submitted by one group member
 The class project will consist of several deliverables within this mini-session that build on each
other
 Your team will be newly hired at an Information Technology firm of my choosing—for this mini, I
would like you to cover Tesla. You are tasked with drafting a risk management plan for the
firm. Some examples of activities in this effort will include:
 Developing a plan for identification, analysis, and response to operational as well as enterprise
risks.
 Establishing a governance structure to include drafting charters for relevant committees.
 Developing a risk appetite statement as well as documenting the process and related
assumptions for doing so.
 Drafting policy and procedure to carrying out critical activities necessary for managing risk in the
organization.
 Your plan needs to be specific enough that you can create a brief proposal explaining the need,
identify and address the stakeholders, charter a governance structure, establish a risk appetite
statement, create a proposed budget, create a high-level project schedule for implementation
(with milestones), and provide measurements to determine the relative success of the program.
 A detailed schedule of deliverables will be posted on Canvas.

### FINAL GRADING APPROACHES:

 ALL ASSIGNMENTS must be completed in Times New Roman 10 - 12 font, double spaced, and
within the confines of the page limit. Please see each assignment and course lectures for
additional information regarding length restrictions. ALL ASSIGMENTS must be submitted in
grammatically correct English.
 Each student’s final grade will be computed as the sum of all points earned in the course minus
any points deducted according to the grading policies. Grades are based on a total possible
score of 100 points for the semester.
 Final Letter grades will be assigned into letter grade categories reflecting the performance of
the class as a whole, and I reserve the right to adjust a specific student’s final letter grade
depending upon their individual situation.
 I will likely use the following grading criteria to assign a final letter grade, but ranges may be
adjusted on the basis of class performance levels overall
100 A+
94-99 A 77-<79 C+
90-<93 A- 73-<76 C
87-<89 B+ 70-<72 C83-<86 B
80-<82 B-
 I foresee no incompletes to be given due to the nature and timing of the assignments. If there is
a problem, please consult with me for discussion about it prior to assignment due dates.
 Getting an A- , B+ or B is not considered to be a serious performance problem in this course as
these grades are all representative of above-average work. I will help students if they are
experiencing serious learning issues, but it is not appropriate to expect only to achieve an A.

Those who attend class, work hard and seriously attempt to do well, will earn good grades
appropriate for their effort. Above-expectation performance on assignments will be recognized
with additional points. Students who have serious concerns about their ability to perform well
should discuss this with me to determine options. Other than the approaches mentioned here,
there will be no extra-credit assignments.
 Note to Graduate Students: The final grades of “C” or below represents inability to master
numerous concepts or poor-quality work. Graduate students may not earn a passing grade
lower than “C-“, which represents a serious situation, so it is advised that we work together to
do all that is possible to improve your performance.
 Please note that I receive emails at the end of every course asking for “more points” or a
better grade. Unless I make an actual error in grading, I am not going to change grades based on
a last-minute plea. Consider this as you start the semester – the time to put in the hard work is
NOW.
### Penalty for Late Assignments of any type:

### Point deduction as per situation based on the following:

 0 – No deduction - Assignment on time, or late due to extenuating circumstances that are the
same as those listed for missing class.
 -5 points – Assignment up to 1 day late
 -10 points – Assignment submitted 2-3 days late
 Student will fail the assignment with a score of zero if more than 3 days late
### POLICIES:

### Course Announcements and Discussion Boards

Students are responsible for ensuring that they receive all notifications regarding the course. As
such, they need to go to Canvas / Account (Upper Left) / Notifications then select the
checkmarks next to three areas: Announcement, Discussion and Discussion Post. There is also a
Canvas app that provides notifications regarding the course. Note that it is rare that I post any
discussion board topics, as we cover so much in class. I will advise the class via announcement
or otherwise if I post a discussion board thread.

Ethical Standards
Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards with respect to plagiarism and
cheating. Neither plagiarism nor cheating will be tolerated on any exercises, quizzes, exams or
assignments. Students may collaborate with others only when expressly permitted by the
instructor. Students who violate academic standards will at a minimum receive a failing grade for
the assignment and may also receive a failing grade for the course. Such cases will be referred to
the Associate Dean, who may decide to take further action.
### Recording of Class Sessions

No student may record or tape any classroom activity without the express written consent of the
instructor. If a student believes that they are disabled and needs to record or tape classroom
activities, they should contact the Office of Equal Opportunity Services, Disability Resources to
request an appropriate accommodation. For this course, I will be recording class sessions and
making them available to you after classes for your personal, educational use. Recordings must
not be shared with anyone outside your course-section. The purpose of these recordings is so
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class
sessions. The recordings are not a substitute for coming to class (you won’t be able to join class
remotely), and they will only become available after that day’s class sections are finished. Feel
free to use the recordings if you would like to review something we discussed in class or if you
are temporarily unable to attend class.
### Communications:

This is a graduate level class in a top US university. You are expected to communicate both
orally and written in a manner and style that is reflective of your acceptance to a graduate
program at Carnegie Mellon University. Grammar, punctuation, and template used should be
professional and appropriate for a course that is designed to prepare you for project management
in the information technology field. For assistance with the written or oral communication

assignments in this class, visit the Global Communication Center (GCC). GCC tutors can
provide instruction on a range of communication topics and can help you improve your papers
and presentations. The GCC is a free service, open to all students, and located in Hunt library.

You can make tutoring appointments directly on the GCC website: http://www.cmu.edu/gcc.

You may also visit the GCC website to find out about communication workshops offered
throughout the academic year.
### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational
opportunities for all students. CMU and I are committed to your success and to supporting
## Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and the Americans with Disabilities

Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is otherwise qualified shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program
or activity, solely by reason of having a disability. If you believe that you need accommodations
for a disability, please contact me ASAP, and we will work together to ensure that you have the
correct access to resources on campus to assist you through your coursework and time at CMU.
### Academic Integrity:

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards are
supported and enforced by students, including those who serve as academic integrity hearing
panel members and hearing officers. The presumptive sanction for a first offense is course
failure, accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.” The
standard sanction for a first offense by graduate students is suspension or expulsion. Please see
http://www.cmu.edu/academicintegrity/ for any questions.

Generative Artificial Intelligence
To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course
yourself, without any use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI
tools to generate any content (text, video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or
classroom exercise. Passing off any AI generated content as your own (e.g., cutting and pasting
content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation of CMU’s
academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course
please email or talk to me.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition of concepts,
presentation format, and accuracy of information. Having done business in countries that use
languages other than English, I understand that the use of an unfamiliar language can result in
unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are not critical to the overall understanding of
the information. Therefore, I will take into account your need to function in a language that may

be unfamiliar to you. The group projects in this course will help on the assignments by providing
opportunities for the group overall to edit final text. I will provide feedback as appropriate if I
feel that language or grammar you have used in assignments would be best if it were configured
in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

The Heinz School uses Carnegie Mellon University’s Canvas system to facilitate distance
learning as well as to enhance main campus courses. In this course, I will use the Canvas system
generally to post lecture notes and related documents and to receive assignments electronically
from students. To access Canvas go to www.cmu.edu/canvas.
### Take Care of Yourself

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep, and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many
helpful resources available on campus, and an important part of the college experience is
learning how and when to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often
helpful.

If you, or anyone you know, experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feel anxiety
or depression, then we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is available to help. Please call 412-268-2922 or visit the website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty, or family member
that you trust for help in getting connected to support that can help.

Diversity Statement
We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity
is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community.

Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race,
color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion,
creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities,
along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and
staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not
only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice.

We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside
of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces
these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Food Insecurity
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on
campus that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:
Pantry Coordinator / cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu / 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)