# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, CMU, this course, students, class, Canvas, Carnegie Mellon University, Peer Tutoring, assignments, support
**Document Length**: 3252 words

---

# 95-808
IT Project Management
FALL 2024 Syllabus
Revised: OCTOBER 2024
# COURSE SYLLABUS

Some changes may occur to the syllabus during the semester depending on timing and other events that may
arise.

Instructor: Brett Tucker
### Technical Manager, CERT, Carnegie Mellon University

Office: CIC Building
Email: brettt@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours: Contact me by email or telephone to arrange any meetings. I will also gladly meet before or
after class for individual discussions as requested.

Class Meetings: Virtual Recordings with Scheduled Office Hours
Course Code/Title: 95-808 IT Project Management
### Class Section: Fall Mini - Z2

Description: From the smallest to the largest organization, the electronic storage and flow of information is critical
to the successful achievement of goals, objectives and the provision of products and services. To manage that
delivery process, we now find the construct mechanism for the delivery of those products and services to be the
“Project” rather than a series of non-integrated tasks. The increased dependence upon projects necessitates the need
for both improved project management and oversight. The purpose of this course is to assist professionals in
understanding the components of complex projects, manage those project components, and to form and lead a
project team. Project Management tools and techniques will be introduced, discussed, and applied.

Prerequisite: None
### Optional Textbooks:

Schwalbe, Kathy. Information Technology Project Management, 9th Edition. Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley &
Sons, Inc., 2018. ISBN-13: 978-1337101356.

Project Management Institute. Project Management Book of Knowledge 7th Edition. Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania: Project Management Institute, 2021. ISBN-13: 978-1628256642.

Course Materials – link to be provided throughout the class
Software: Assignment documents are primarily in the form of text for this course and will be submitted in either
MSWORD or PDF form. Therefore, students will need to use the “Save As PDF” function of Microsoft Word, or
use some other print-image conversion software, such as Adobe Acrobat Pro or compatible PDF file type converter.

Further information will be provided when assignments are submitted.
### LEARNING OUTCOMES:

### Students who complete this course successfully will be able to do the following:

 Build on a foundation of project management gained in previous study, describe complex issues that
confront real-world IT project managers.
 Integrate previous learning with perspectives on real-world challenges for IT project managers in order to
identify and describe major IT project management issues.
 Research and analyze what factors are important to the successful implementation of IT projects in the
context of particular business strategies, and in a given business focus area, and how representative
organizations within that business focus area seem to be taking advantage of various IT project
management strategies and approaches over time and scale.
 Develop and justify practical strategies, tools and practices that can lead to an adaptive approach to IT
project management in a variety of settings, scales and diverse industry applications.
 Describe resources available to the IT project manager to keep current with trends and best practices in the
resolution of complex project management.
 Summarize the research, analysis and findings in a formal, in-class presentation, and evaluate others’
presentations in the context of concepts learned during the course.
### COURSE REQUIREMENTS:

Class Attendance & Participation: 10% of total grade (10 points)
This is a virtual class. Therefore participation will be measured through your team interactions. Office hour
participation is also greatly desired, but they are not required. Recordings of class sessions and office hour sessions
are covered under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and must not be shared with anyone

outside your course-section. The purpose of these recording is so students in this course (and only students in this
course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions. Feel free to use the recordings if you would like to review
something we discussed in class or if you are temporarily unable to attend class.

Participation is based on quality over quantity. Attending office hours can constitute participation, but this can come
in many other forms as well. Inquiry via Canvas, discussion topics, comments in class are all valid ways to
participate in class inside and outside of the classroom. Please feel free to start discussion threads with your
classmates. This grade percentage is to encourage you to be active in this course and to draw out thoughts,
comments, and opinions. I will be tracking participation closely not only to see that you are engaged, but also to use
as a personal learning opportunity for myself—that said, I greatly value the experience and ideas you bring to class
and relish learning from you.

In order to attend class meetings in person, all students are expected to abide by all behaviors indicated in A Tartan’s
Responsibility, including any timely updates based on the current conditions.

Readings
 To be updated and provided for each module of the class
Quizzes: 40% of total grade (20 points each test)
 Two quizzes will be given during the session
Group Project & Assignments: 40% of total grade (40 points)
“It must be remembered that project management is first and foremost a philosophy of management, not an
elaborate set of tools and techniques. It will only be as effective as the people who use it.” - Bryce's Law
 Groups may consist of approximately 2-3 students unless special permission is granted by me – groups will
be assigned
o Assignments only need to be submitted by one group member
 The project will consist of many milestones within this mini-session that build on each other
 Overview:
o Your team will identify a problem/challenge/issue or a potential improvement that could be made to Information
Technology at Carnegie Mellon University. Examples include: Migrating to another Learning Management System
(other than Blackboard), issuing iPads to all students. http://www.educause.edu/ has listed the following as the Top
10 IT issues facing universities:
 Hiring and retaining qualified staff, and updating the knowledge and skills of existing technology staff

 Optimizing the use of technology in teaching and learning in collaboration with academic leadership,
including understanding the appropriate level of technology to use
 Developing IT funding models that sustain core service, support innovation, and facilitate growth
 Improving student outcomes through an institutional approach that strategically leverages technology
 Demonstrating the business value of information technology and how technology and the IT organization
can help the institution achieve its goals
 Increasing the IT organization's capacity for managing change, despite differing community needs,
priorities, and abilities
 Providing user support in the new normal—mobile, online education, cloud, and Bring Your Own Device
(BYOD) environments
 Developing mobile, cloud, and digital security policies that work for most of the institutional community
 Developing an enterprise IT architecture that can respond to changing conditions and new opportunities
 Balancing agility, openness, and security
o Your project topic needs to be specific enough that you can create a brief proposal explaining the need, identify
and address the stakeholders, create a proposed budget, create a project schedule (with milestones and resources),
and show that you can track progress using Earned Value Management for monitoring and controlling of the
project. I do recognize that many of you come from diverse backgrounds where you have had other jobs and
projects. You may in fact be working on a project at your current place of employment right now. If that is the
case, I am open to considering a project scope that does not pertain to CMU. Please be sure to share your idea with
me prior to committing any work to the project to make sure that it can accommodate the rubric for the assignment.
o A detailed schedule of project deliverables will be posted on Canvas.

Writing Assignment: 10% of total grade (10 points)
 Typically, I like to give a writing assignment first thing in the class. I do this, so that you can learn about
my expectations and grading style. This may include:
o 1 brief paper
### FINAL GRADING APPROACHES:

 Each student’s final grade will be computed as the sum of all points earned in the course minus any points
deducted according to the grading policies. Grades are based on a total possible score of 100 points for the
semester.
 Final Letter grades will be assigned into letter grade categories reflecting the performance of the class as a
whole, and I reserve the right to adjust a specific student’s final letter grade depending upon their
individual situation.
 I will likely use the following grading criteria to assign a final letter grade, but ranges may be adjusted on
the basis of class performance levels overall

100 A+
93-99 A 77-<79 C+
90-<92 A- 73-<76 C
87-<89 B+ 70-<72 C83-<86 B
80-<82 B-
 I foresee no incompletes to be given due to the nature and timing of the assignments. If there is a problem,
please make arrangements with me for discussion about it prior to assignment due dates.
 Getting an A- , B+ or B is not considered to be a serious performance problem in this course as these
grades are all representative of above-average work. I will help students if they are experiencing serious
learning issues, but it is not appropriate to expect only to achieve an A. Those who attend class/office
hours, work hard and seriously attempt to do well, will earn good grades appropriate for their effort.

Above-expectation performance on assignments will be recognized with additional points. Students who
have serious concerns about their ability to perform well should discuss this with me to determine options.

Other than the approaches mentioned here, there will be no extra-credit assignments.
 Note to Graduate Students: The final grades of “C” or below represents inability to master numerous
concepts or poor-quality work. Graduate students may not earn a passing grade lower than “C-“, which
represents a serious situation, so it is advised that we work together to do all that is possible to improve
your performance.
 Please note that I receive emails at the end of every course asking for “more points” or a better grade.

Unless I make an actual error in grading, I am not going to change grades based on a last-minute plea. All
attempts to regrade assignments mean that I start my grading from scratch. Any grace provided upon my
first grading will likely not be applied on the second grading attempt.
### Penalty for Late Assignments of any type:

### Point deduction as per situation based on the following:

 0 – No deduction - Assignment on time, or late due to extenuating circumstances.
 Loss of 20% – Assignment up to 1 day late
 Loss of 30% – Assignment 1-2 days late
 Loss of 50% – Assignment submitted 2-3 days late
 Student will fail the assignment with a score of zero if more than 3 days late
### POLICIES:

### Communications:

This is a graduate level class in a top US university. You are expected to communicate both orally and written in a
manner and style that is reflective of your acceptance to a graduate program at Carnegie Mellon University.

Grammar, punctuation, and template used should be professional and appropriate for a course that is designed to
prepare you for project management in the information technology field. For assistance with the written or oral
communication assignments in this class, visit the Global Communication Center (GCC). GCC tutors can provide
instruction on a range of communication topics and can help you improve your papers and presentations. The GCC
is a free service, open to all students, and located in Hunt library. You can make tutoring appointments directly on
the GCC website: http://www.cmu.edu/gcc. You may also visit the GCC website to find out about communication
workshops offered throughout the academic year.
### Other Resources for academic support include:

Academic Coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to help
undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists students with time
management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management, and other skills. Request an
initial consultation here.

Peer Tutoring – Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their coursework.

Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open tutoring sessions during the
fall and spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing individualized and small group sessions.

You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content, clarify and ask questions, and work through practice
problems. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being supported by Peer Tutoring.

Communication Support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as well as
group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts including IMRaD and thesisdriven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design, advanced research, application
materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data visualization, and team projects.

Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule
an appointment (in-person or video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or videos to strengthen communication
skills.

Language and Cross-Cultural Support – This program supports students seeking help with language and crosscultural skills for academic and professional success through individual and group sessions. Students can get
assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations and strategies for clear academic writing,
pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and more. Make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get
individualized coaching.

Supplemental Instruction (SI) – This program offers a non-remedial approach to learning in historically difficult
courses at CMU. It utilizes a peer-led group study approach to help students succeed and is facilitated by an SI
leader, a CMU student who has successfully completed the course. SI offers a way to connect with other students
studying the same course, a guaranteed weekly study time that reinforces learning and retention of information, as

well as a place to learn and integrate study tools and exam techniques specific to a course. Visit the website to see
courses with SI available here.

Generative Artificial Intelligence
To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself, without any
use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate any content (text, video,
audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off any AI generated content as your
own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation
of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course please email
or talk to me.
### We must treat every individual with respect:

We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and
inclusive campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not
limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion,
creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many
others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU,
will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but
because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work,
inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces
these core values. Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment both inside and outside
of this class.
### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational opportunities for all
students. CMU and I are committed to your success and to supporting Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
as amended and the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is
otherwise qualified shall be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination
under any program or activity, solely by reason of having a disability. If you believe that you need accommodations
for a disability, please contact me ASAP, and we will work together to ensure that you have the correct access to
resources on campus to assist you through your coursework and time at CMU.
### Academic Integrity:

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards are supported and enforced
by students, including those who serve as academic integrity hearing panel members and hearing officers. The
presumptive sanction for a first offense is course failure, accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the
Academic Integrity Policy.” The standard sanction for a first offense by graduate students is suspension or
expulsion. Please see http://www.cmu.edu/academicintegrity/ for any questions.

### Cell Phones, Smartphones and other handheld wireless devices:

Other than during class breaks, please silence ring tones and refrain from engaging in calls, messaging or other use
during class time. All devices must not be visible in any way during quizzes.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition of concepts, presentation format,
and accuracy of information. Having done business in countries that use languages other than English, I understand
that the use of an unfamiliar language can result in unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are not critical
to the overall understanding of the information. Therefore, I will take into account your need to function in a
language that may be unfamiliar to you. The group projects in this course will help on the assignments by providing
opportunities for the group overall to edit final text. I will provide feedback as appropriate if I feel that language or
grammar you have used in assignments would be best if it were configured in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

The Heinz School uses Carnegie Mellon University’s Canvas system to facilitate distance learning as well as to
enhance main campus courses. In this course, I will use the Canvas system generally to post lecture notes and related
documents and to receive assignments electronically from students. To access Canvas go to www.cmu.edu/canvas.
### Take Care of Yourself

This year is unlike any other. We are all under a lot of stress and uncertainty at this time. Make sure to move
regularly, eat well, and reach out to your support system or me if you need to. We can all benefit from support in
times of stress, and this semester is no exception.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available on campus, and an important part of the college experience is learning how and when to ask for
help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you, or anyone you know, experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feel anxiety or depression, then
we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is available to
help. Please call 412-268-2922 or visit the website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty, or family member that you trust for help in getting connected to support that can help.

Food Insecurity

If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus that can help.
### Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:

### Pantry Coordinator Contact Information:

cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu
# 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)