# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 15%, the problem, DSS, Canvas, HBS, information, healthcare delivery, Students, healthcare
**Document Length**: 2117 words

---

# Syllabus
# 94-706 Healthcare Information Systems – Spring 2025

1005 HbH
Class Time: M, W, 11:00am - 12:20pm ET
Recitation: Friday, 2:00pm – 3.20pm ET
Instructional Staff
### Instructor: Dr. Rema Padman

### Trustees Professor of Management Science and Healthcare Informatics

Web: https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/faculty-research/profiles/padman-rema
Office: 2101D Hamburg Hall
Phone: (412) 268-2180
Email: rpadman@cmu.edu
Office Hours: W 12.30pm – 1.30pm ET or by appointment
### Teaching Assistants & TA Hours:

Head TA: Xinyu Yao, xinyuyao@andrew.cmu.edu
TA: TBD
Introduction
Healthcare systems worldwide are under tremendous pressure on all fronts – cost, quality of care, access, and
efficiency. Rapidly growing population segments, such as the elderly and disadvantaged, and increasing rates
of chronic disease and complex health conditions are demanding efficient and effective care delivery that is
outpacing supply of trained healthcare professionals and accessible facilities. The ongoing worldwide
pandemic has further increased disparities in access and outcomes, but also accelerated adoption of
information, communication and decision technologies for multi-modal care delivery at scale.

In the US, healthcare costs have reached more than 18% of the GDP but care quality and outcomes are falling
behind other industrialized countries. Successive scientific reports by the National Academy of Medicine have
called for wide adoption of Information Technology (IT) and advanced data analytics to improve access, quality
of care, safety and efficiency, and reduce costs. IT and analytics have thus emerged as potentially powerful
enablers in helping to achieve multiple goals within and across the healthcare eco-system.

The explosive advances in IT and analytics, particularly powered by the creation of vast data repositories in
recent years, is also enabling new models of healthcare delivery. This has created the need for skilled
individuals who can understand, develop, manage, and integrate clinical and administrative information,
technologies, and systems to support timely and informed decision making by all stakeholders. Healthcare
Informatics has been named one of the top careers in U.S. News & World Report, and the American Medical
Informatics Association (www.amia.org) estimates that the US will need several thousand professionals
trained in informatics immediately!

This course will provide a broad overview of the application of major information systems methodologies and
approaches in the delivery and administration of modern healthcare systems. The development and use of
decision support systems in the context of the Electronic Health Record (EHR) and associated clinical
information systems, and mobile, ehealth and social media platforms for consumer self-health and public
health management, enabled by interoperability via data and technology standards, and regulatory
mechanisms, will be a major focus of the course.

Audience
The course is appropriate for graduate students who want to understand the landscape and role of
information, communication and decision technologies in healthcare delivery and management and the
interactions between the technologies, data analytics and healthcare challenges and opportunities in the
current environment.

Learning Outcomes: Students should be able to:
## 1. Understand and appreciate the role and value of information, communication and decision

technologies in potentially revolutionizing healthcare delivery, administration, education, and research;
## 2. Distinguish the various types of healthcare information, including knowledge, data, sources, processes

and standards;
## 3. Identify major healthcare informatics applications and develop basic familiarity with healthcare IT

products;
## 4. Analyze obstacles and success factors for implementation and integration of information,

communication and decision technologies in healthcare using established frameworks;
## 5. Discuss the technical and policy implications of introducing informatics applications into healthcare for

process efficiency and quality of care;
## 6. Develop teamwork skills to mediate the communication between healthcare professionals and

information technology personnel; and,
## 7. Acquire hands-on experience in studying a problem arising in healthcare delivery and conceptualizing

and implementing a solution using a healthcare informatics approach.

Course Structure
This course will be taught in discussion format via instructor, guest speakers, and student presentations, case
study analyses, and software demonstrations. A semester-long group project is a cornerstone of this course
that provides students with hands-on experience in conceptualizing, designing and implementing healthcare
information systems.

Course Materials
Required materials: Harvard Business School Cases and Articles (all students MUST purchase the course pack;
it is a violation of intellectual property agreements to copy HBS materials from each other)
Coursepack link: https://hbsp.harvard.edu/import/
Weekly lectures will be published on the course site on canvas: https://canvas.cmu.edu/
Lists of recommended books, journals, magazines and articles are also available on the course website.

Students will be guided to additional, multi-media-rich course materials to identify issues, obtain perspectives,
review application demos and gain knowledge of current uses of information technology in healthcare.

Student Activities
Students are expected to participate actively in class discussions and discussion forum on Canvas, work
cooperatively and independently on weekly assignments, present summaries on focused topics, analyze and
debate two Harvard Business School (HBS) cases, complete two exams, and conceptualize, design, implement,
and demo the final project - a working prototype of a healthcare decision support system application.

Grading Criteria
### The final grade will be determined by the following five components:

## 1. Assignments and presentations: 20%

## 2. Two HBS case discussions (group effort): 15%

## 3. Exam 1 (closed materials): on Monday, February 17 15%

## 4. Exam 2 (closed materials): on Monday, March 31 15%

## 5. Final project proposal (group effort): due Wednesday, March 12 5%

## 6. Final Project (group effort) and peer evaluations: due Monday, April 30 30%

### Expectations for the grading components:

*  All students must be fully prepared for classes. This includes completing readings and homework for
each class, preparing summary and critiques of the readings as specified, exploring and presenting IT
solutions on relevant topics, and being an involved discussant in class.
*  Analyze, present and discuss two HBS cases in a logical, clear and in-depth manner. The format for the
case discussion sessions will be provided prior to submission.
*  The 2-page project proposal should outline the problem you intend to explore using a DSS approach.

Include the motivation and context, a brief overview of the requirements that need to be addressed,
the dataset you will utilize and 3 DSS questions that will be answered by your IT-enabled solution. A
sample proposal is available on Canvas.
*  You will use MySQL for database + Python packages for data analytics to implement the healthcarerelated decision support application. The project deliverables will include a written report, final
presentation slides, and a working prototype application (using MySQL+Python). This technology
prototype of a Healthcare Decision Support System (due in the final week of the semester) will
investigate issues associated with a specific healthcare industry problem from the perspective of a key
stakeholder. Stakeholders may be providers, patients, caregivers, insurers, state and federal
governments, IT vendors, or the general consumer.
− Examples include predictive analytics for complex clinical conditions, e-health initiatives,
mobile health initiatives, ACO models, compliance reporting, claims administration, patient
safety initiatives, medication management and disease management.
*  The final project report should include several components that are listed later.
*  What is a healthcare Decision Support System?

A decision support system (DSS) can be defined as any computer system composed of data management
and analysis tools, designed to support decision-making. In this course, one can broadly think of three
main types of decision support systems: clinical, administrative and consumer/public-focused (public
health, patient self-management, etc.). Clinical decision support systems help to improve delivery of
healthcare by supporting health professionals to make more informed clinical decisions. Administrative
decision support systems help management professionals, such as finance, operational and human
resource managers, to make decisions to improve management and organization of healthcare resources.

Consumer focused decision support systems support patients, caregivers and the public in proactive selfhealth management, wellness care and population health management.

The underlying conceptual architecture of a generic decision support system consists of a user interface
component, problem processing/analytics system, and knowledge/data system (Holsapple and Whinston,
1996). The user interface component of a DSS helps the user to access the system (for instance, an
electronic health record) and interact with it. The knowledge system is a systematically organized
collection of knowledge that is accessible electronically and interpretable by the computer. A database,
data warehouse, or a medical knowledge base consisting of a vocabulary with relationships that capture
the medical literature and expert domain knowledge, are examples of knowledge systems. The problem
processing system provides a reasoning strategy or analytical approach to harness the knowledge system.

An example is the set of drug-drug interaction rules that can be applied to a database of drugs before a
transaction takes place. Patient data in the form of an electronic medical record makes up the final
database component that triggers the rules when the patient is prescribed a new medication.
### *  Check List for Final Project Report

The report, composed as a Word document in 12point font and double-spaced, should not exceed 20
pages, including references and appendices. It should be justified on both sides and include page
numbering, appropriate section titles, and references. The final in-class presentation and prototype demo
by each group should not exceed 15 minutes. The final report should include all the following components.

All components, including any security feature that has been implemented using password protection
functionality, should be submitted as a zipped file to the course Canvas site by Friday, April 30.
### *  Describe the problem and the context such as what is the problem, why is it a problem, who are the

stakeholders, the potential role of IT in providing an effective decision support solution strategy for
the problem, etc.
### *  Describe the policy and management issues relevant to your specific problem

### *  Describe the key activities associated with the process and depict the process model for your problem

### *  Identify a software vendor and product that provide a potential solution to the problem

### *  Discuss the gaps between the existing product and the specific requirements of your problem

### *  Explain the major components of your IT solution and their content by mapping the decision support

requirements of the problem, including the impact of standards and HIPAA, on the technology
architecture of your IT solution
### *  Describe the data sources used, the data elements extracted from these sources and the structure of

your final database (submit the dataset along with the rest of your project components)
### *  Apply the PEIT framework to develop an implementation and deployment plan for your DSS

application
### *  Examine the solution for "what-if" scenarios

### *  Policy implications of your project (both health policy and IT policy)

### *  Conclusions and specific recommendations

### *  Peer Evaluation will be included in the grading of the project

Note: The final presentation may include a relevant subset of the above components.

Assignment Due Dates
Requests for extensions of assignment due dates or for course incompletes will be granted only for medical
reasons with evidence of medical need.

Students with Disabilities
If you have a qualifying disability, please feel free to request accommodation from the instructor. In addition,
Carnegie Mellon recommends that you contact Equal Opportunity Services (EOS). Contact EOS Coordinator at
eos@andrew.cmu.edu or check for further information at https://www.cmu.edu/hr/resources/hrpartners/eos.html.

### Academic Integrity: Cheating and Plagiarism

The Heinz College prepares students for positions of public trust, and therefore must uphold the highest
standards of academic integrity. As the instructor of this course, I am committed to this principle and intend
to enforce it rigorously. All work presented in this class must be accurately represented for what it is, with
every source clearly identified. Creative, original thinking is valued, as is a capability to tap into the wealth of
accumulated knowledge. I expect and require that submitted work be an honest representation of what each
student has done. Sources found in books, magazines, newspapers and the web must be properly cited.

Discussions with friends, family and fellow students must be identified. Use of AI tools such as ChatGPT must
be reported.

As a student in this class, you must accept responsibility for the work that you submit. You must be much more
than a collector of other people's ideas and expressions and produce your independent work. You will benefit
greatly from in-class discussions and discussions outside of the classroom of topics covered in the course. Go
beyond this to put your individual stamp on each thing that you do. Be fair and honest in clearly indicating
what has been the source of and inspiration for your work. Infractions of this policy will not be tolerated and
can lead to failure of the course and dismissal from the College.

See also the "Carnegie Mellon University Policy on Cheating and Plagiarism." Students will be expected to be
familiar with this policy which can be found on the web at: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-andstudent-life/academic-integrity.html. Consult the Student Handbook for Academic Disciplinary Actions at:
https://www.cmu.edu/student-affairs/theword/academic-discipline/index.html.