# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, North Korea, March, class, Syllabus, Canvas, Class participation, The New York Times, Course, Page
**Document Length**: 1440 words

---

### International Strategic Crisis Negotiation Exercise Syllabus

Course #94-859 (3 units), Spring 2024, mini 4
Professor Professor
### Silvia Borzutzky David R. Lassman

Hamburg Hall Room 2112 Hamburg Hall Room 2114
# 412-268-3250 412-999-3612

sb6n@andrew.cmu.edu dlassman@andrew.cmu.edu
## 1. Course Description

### This introductory course (there are no prerequisite courses) is designed to:

### *  Increase your understanding of international conflicts and negotiation processes; and

*  Improve your effectiveness as a team leader, team member and negotiator.

Students will prepare for and participate in an immersive negotiation exercise led by the United States Army
War College. All classwork and the actual exercise occur over two weekends – Saturday, March 16, Saturday,
March 23, and Sunday, March 24. All students also need to attend a lunchtime debriefing on Tuesday, March
## 26. All classes and negotiations are in-person. Students may attend the Tuesday debrief session remotely upon

approval from one of the instructors or if they are on the DC campus.
## 2. Course Objectives

### Learning Objective How Assessed

Develop an understanding of the complexity of Class participation; US Army War
international issues and conflicts. College exercise; written assignment.

Develop both team member and team leader skills Class participation; US Army War
College exercise; written assignment.

Develop negotiation skills Class participation; US Army War
College exercise; written assignment.

Listen to, respect, and heed the advice and ideas of Class participation; US Army War
others College exercise; written assignment.
## 3. Class Schedule and Course Materials

The course is divided into four sessions detailed below.

Session 1: Saturday, March 16, 9:00-12:00; Hamburg Hall A301
Topic: Teamwork and negotiation
Instructor: David Lassman
Required reading: Please read/watch the following before class:
1. “Why Some Teams are Smarter than others” from The New York Times. This 2-page article is posted
on Canvas.

2. “Speaking While Female” from The New York Times. This 2-page article is posted on Canvas.

Syllabus for Course #94-859 Page 1 of 4
Revision Date: 3/13/24

## 3. Please follow the ‘arrows’ on the website to move through the timeline learn the history of the Cuban

Missile Crisis at http://www.cubanmissilecrisis.org/background/timeline/
### Optional reading:

## 1. Watch three brief videos at http://www.cubanmissilecrisis.org/for-educators/video-resources/

NOTE: the videos may take a minute to load, so please be patient. Also, there are eleven videos on this
web page so make sure you are watching the correct three, the titles of which are listed below.
*  “Foreign Affairs Focus On Nuclear Lessons: The Cuban Missile Crisis With Graham Allison” July
12, 2012 (10 minutes long)
*  “JFK50 – His Finest Hour” April 21, 2011 (2 minutes long)
*  “Sergei Khrushchev on the Cuban Missile Crisis” September 2008 (3 minutes long)
2. “Getting To Yes” by Roger Fisher and William Ury, 2011, Penguin Books. You may purchase this
book (available for around $10 online) or borrow it from a library.

Study Questions: You are NOT required to turn in written responses to the following questions. These questions
are purely to help you prepare for our classroom discussions on teamwork and negotiation.
## 1. Have you ever been on well-performing teams at work and/or at Heinz College? Why did these teams

perform so well, i.e. what conditions and team member behaviors helped the teams reach their goals?

What role did team leaders play and how were these leaders chosen? What role did you play in helping
the teams be successful? Now answer the same questions for teams that did NOT perform well.
## 2. Regarding the Cuban Missile Crisis, what are the United States’ BATNAs (Best Alternative to a

Negotiated Agreement) in the early stages of the crisis, once the USSR has placed missiles in Cuba?

Session 2: Saturday, March 16, 12:45-3:00
Topic: The session is geared to provide an overview of:
a) North Korea’s history
b) North Korean domestic politics
c) North Korean relations with China and South Korea
d) U.S. policies toward North Korea since the 1990s
### e) The North Korean Nuclear Program

f) N. Korea’s relations with Japan and Russia.

Instructor: Silvia Borzutzky
Required reading: Please read the following articles before class. If you have limited time, please make sure
to carefully read the articles/s that are relevant to your team and take a quick look at the other ones.

These are mostly short articles
## 1. Frontline, “The U.S. and North Korea On the Brink: A Timeline”,

https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/frontline/article/the-u-s-and-north-korea-on-the-brink-a-timeline/
2. “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons and Missile Programs” CRS Report, Dec 2023
https://crsreports.congress.gov
## 3. Wada Haruki, “Normalization of Relations Between Japan and North Korea: Why Is It Necessary and

How Could It Be Accomplished?”, The Asia-Pacific Journal, Dec2023 https://apjjf.org/2023/12/wadamccormack
4. “The surge of activity in relations between North Korea and Russia” IISS, 2023,
https://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/2023/the-surge-of-activity-in-relations-betweennorth-korea-and-russia/
## 5. Andrew Yeo, “On the brink: Why inter-Korean relations have reached a new low, Brookings, Jan 2024

https://www.brookings.edu/articles/on-the-brink-why-inter-korean-relations-have-reached-a-new-low/
Syllabus for Course #94-859 Page 2 of 4
Revision Date: 3/13/24

## 6. Bruce W Bennett, “North Korea and China Aren't the Allies You Think They Are” The Rand Blog, Sept

2023 https://www.rand.org/pubs/commentary/2023/09/north-korea-and-china-arent-the-allies-you-thinkthey.html
## 7. Ben Frohman, Emma Rafaelof, Alexis Dale-Huang, “The China-North Korea Strategic Rift:

## Background and Implications for the United States”, U.S.-China Economic and Security Review

Commission, 2022, https://www.uscc.gov/sites/default/files/2022-01/ChinaNorth_Korea_Strategic_Rift.pdf
Optional reading: Please make sure to read the articles below if they are relevant to your team
## 1. Arms Control Association, “Nuclear Weapons: Who Has What at a Glance”, June 2023

https://www.armscontrol.org/factsheets/Nuclearweaponswhohaswhat
## 2. North Korea, Amnesty International Report 2021/22, https://www.amnesty.org/en/location/asia-and-thepacific/east-asia/north-korea/report-korea-democratic-peoples-republic-of/

Session 3 – NEGOTIATIONS: Saturday, March 23, 8:30-6:45 (all day) and Sunday, March 24, 8:302:30; Hamburg Hall A301
### Topic: United States Army War College Exercise

Instructors: Various
Required reading: Exercise preparation documents that will be distributed prior to the exercise.

Dress Code: Business Attire (please dress like a diplomat)
Attendance is mandatory.

Session 4: Tuesday, March 26, 12:30-1:50; Hamburg Hall A301
### Topic: Debrief of Exercise

### Instructors: Silvia Borzutzky and David Lassman

Required reading: None
## 4. Expectations

You are expected to attend class, be prepared for class, and participate in the discussions and the negotiation
exercise. You are permitted and encouraged to discuss reading material before class with other students.

Be respectful of others: arrive to class on time; do not return from breaks late; if you must leave class or the
exercise early, please let your instructors know beforehand.

Please let one of us know if you do not understand class material or requirements or if any special circumstance
prevents you from completing a class requirement on time.
## 5. Evaluation/Grading

### This is a three-unit course, offered as Pass/Fail only. To pass the course, students must:

*  20% of course grade: Attend and actively participate in both classes on March 16 and the debrief session on
March 26.
*  50% of course grade: Attend the War College Exercise on March 23-24 and actively participate in the
negotiations.
*  30% of course grade: Written assignment, which is due by April 5 at 8:00PM. The assignment consists of
two brief papers, one on teamwork/negotiation (Lassman) and one on the regional conflict (Borzutzky).

Please submit both papers on Canvas as Word documents, not pdfs.
### A. Teamwork/Negotiation assignment:

Syllabus for Course #94-859 Page 3 of 4
Revision Date: 3/13/24

In 350-400 words, please answer the following: What is the one key lesson regarding teamwork and/or
negotiation you learned from this course? How will this lesson help you make better decisions and/or
take better actions in the future? Please be as specific as possible.

In your response, you may include material covered in all sessions of the course – the pre-exercise
session, the actual negotiation exercise, and the post-exercise debriefing. Make sure to cite your
sources.
### B. Regional Conflict assignment:

### In no more than 400 words please do the following:

### *  Summarize what you learned about the interests and policies of the country you represented during

the weekend, and
### *  Answer the following question: Do you think your country achieved its strategic objectives during

the negotiations? Please explain your answer.
## 6. Academic Statement – Cheating and Plagiarism

You are responsible to know and adhere to all University policies on academic integrity. The Heinz School
provides a booklet on Plagiarism and Cheating, and the University lists all policies on the web at
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/AcademicIntegrity.htm. Please acquaint yourself with their contents.

Any cheating or plagiarism will result in failure in the course and your case will be referred to the Associate
Dean, who may decide to take further action.
## 7. Recording of Lectures

University policies establish that “no student may record or tape any classroom activity without the express
written consent of the instructor”.

Syllabus for Course #94-859 Page 4 of 4
Revision Date: 3/13/24