# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Article Assignment, class, Study Questions, David Lassman, Revision Date, the course, the case, HBR, one
**Document Length**: 5177 words

---

### Syllabus for Organizational Design and Implementation

Course #94-700 (6 units), Section A3 Spring 2025
Thursday 6:30-9:20 (EST)
### Remote Only via Zoom

### David Lassman – Professor Rhythm Dahiya – Teaching Assistant

Hamburg Hall Room 2114 rdahiya@andrew.cmu.edu
# 412-999-3612

dlassman@andrew.cmu.edu
Regular office hours will be scheduled after the start of the semester. In addition, please
feel free to contact either of us anytime to discuss the course.
## 1. Course Description

This introductory course (there are no prerequisite courses) is designed to improve your effectiveness as a
manager and leader by introducing you to frameworks for understanding organizations and organizational
processes. Organizations have been studied from the perspective of several social science disciplines,
including psychology, sociology, economics, anthropology and political science. The field on which this
course is based, organizational behavior, draws from all of these disciplines and applies the insights derived
from the pertinent research. This course will introduce you to this research and ways to apply the knowledge
to particular situations through your analysis and subsequent class discussion of case studies.
## 2. Course Objectives

### Learning Objective How Assessed

Take a holistic approach to addressing issues facing an Class participation and written
organization. assignments
Apply frameworks and theories to analyze situations in Class participation and written
which organizations are undergoing change. assignments
Apply frameworks and theories to analyze tools and Class participation and written
methods used to empower, inspire and hold accountable assignments
members of an organization.

Identify and clearly define a problem/issue; analyze and Class participation and written
question data and information in a rigorous manner. assignments
Listen to, respect and heed the advice and ideas of others. Class participation and written
assignments
Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 1 of 10

## 3. Course Materials

All materials are listed in the ‘Course Schedule’ section of this syllabus.
## 4. Class Structure

Classes typically consist of one case discussion and a review of the associated reading material. The readings
are meant to provide theory and frameworks to assist in case analysis. Instructions for each class and
questions to assist with case analysis are included in the ‘Course Schedule’ section of this syllabus.
## 5. Expectations

Typically, cases require 2 to 3 hours of preparation and readings/articles require 1 hour of preparation. It is
expected that everyone will be prepared to discuss the cases and the readings in class.

My goal is to make this an excellent learning experience for you. If at any time you feel that the course is not
meeting your expectations, PLEASE CONTACT ME. If you would prefer to provide anonymous comments,
please leave a message in my office mailbox or speak with my supervisor, Andy Wasser.

Be respectful of others: arrive to class on time; do not return from break late; if you must leave class early,
please let me know beforehand.
## 6. Evaluation/Grading

All assignments and class participation are graded on a point scale as outlined below. Final course grades will
be assigned as follows:
### Letter Grade Point Range

A+ 295-300
A 282-294.5
A- 273-281.5
B+ 264-272.5
B 252-263.5
B- 243-251.5
C+ 234-242.5
C 222-233.5
C- 213-221.5
R Below 213
A) Class participation – 20% of course grade for a maximum of 60 points. Each student begins the
semester with 50 points. Points are added or subtracted from the 50 according to the following:
*  0-10 points are added for class participation as evaluated over the course of the semester by the
professor. Everyone is encouraged and expected to participate in class discussions and activities.

Sharing your own knowledge and experience benefits the entire class. Constructive contribution to
the class discussion and genuine listening to others is an important element of class participation.

Keep in mind that high quality participation is the goal, not high quantity of airtime. In other words,
it's not how much you talk, it's what you say that's important.
*  Attendance is taken in all classes, including the first class. If you are absent from class, 3 points may
be deducted from your participation score. If you need to miss a class, please e-mail me with as much
advance notice as possible and state the reason for missing class. If it is a valid reason for missing
class, this is an ‘excused absence’ and 3 points will not be deducted. If it is not a valid reason for
missing class – for example, you slept in or were on vacation – this is an ‘unexcused absence’ and 3
points will be deducted.

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 2 of 10

*  There is a penalty for excessive absences. If you miss four classes (including both excused and
unexcused absences), 30 points will be deducted from your final course grade. If you miss five
classes, 45 points will be deducted from your final course grade. If you miss six or more classes, 60
points will be deducted from your final course grade.
### *  If you are more than a few minutes late arriving to a class, two points will be deducted from your class

participation score.
*  It should be clear from the above point structure that your attendance in class is important and valued.

B) Individual Written Assignments – 50% of course grade. There are five assignments (30 points each) for
a total of 150 points for the semester. The Individual Written Assignments are due by the beginning of
class on the due date. Please submit a Word document (not pdf) via Canvas. This assignment is an
individual effort; you may not work on this paper with other students.

The recommended length of each assignment is 800-1000 words. Papers longer than 1000 words tend to
restate too many facts from the case and article and/or are unfocused. Papers less than 800 words tend to
miss key points, lack detail, and/or are not thorough enough. Therefore, we recommend sticking to the
word limit. Footnotes are excluded from this word limit, i.e. only the body of the paper is counted toward
the word limit. Please double space all assignments.

Do NOT search for additional sources in writing your papers; please use only the cases, articles, videos,
etc. assigned in the course. If there is an article you have read which pertains to the topic and you want to
reference it, feel free. But again, these are not research papers – use only the content covered in the
course.

Below is the Grading Rubric for the Individual Written Assignments – each bullet below reduces the
grade by 2-3 points:
*  An argument refutes case/article facts and/or is not supported by information in the case/article.
### *  An analysis of the possible consequences or implications of your recommendations is not included in

the paper. We want you to think critically about the situation and your recommendations.
*  Assumptions are missing and/or not well-articulated.
*  The paper does not stay focused on its core points and/or lacks any particular point of focus.
*  The paper is too short and does not include enough detail.
*  An assertion is made but not defended, elaborated, not clearly articulated.
*  Too much fact restatement and not enough analysis and original thinking. Don’t just list/state facts, also
consider what those facts mean and how they impact your conclusions and arguments. You should not
repeat in detail what happened in the case; we (the professor and TA) have read the cases and articles,
so we know what happened. Instead, focus your writing on analysis, recommendations and conclusions.
*  Excessive poor grammar, run-on sentences, etc.
*  The paper is too long, exceeding the recommended 1000-word upper limit by more than 50 words.
*  Missing/improper footnoting. You are required to footnote all sources, including any assigned
articles and case studies. The recommended form of footnoting is the Chicago Manual of Style. This
website clearly describes this method:
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/chicago_manual_17th_edition/cmos_formatting_and_
style_guide/general_format.html
*  Assignments submitted late receive a 4-point reduction.

C) Individual Final Paper – 30% of course grade; 90 points maximum. The Individual Final Paper is due
on March 4 at 11:00PM, although you may submit the paper early. This assignment is an individual
effort; you may not work on this paper with other students.

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 3 of 10

The recommended length is 1400-1600 words. Footnotes are excluded from this word limit, i.e. only the
body of the paper is counted toward the word limit. Please submit a double-spaced Word document (not
pdf) via Canvas. For this assignment, please consider all of the readings, videos, class discussions, etc.
covered in the course and address the following:
What are the one or two key lessons or concepts you have learned from the course? Describe the
implications these lessons had for you in a prior job or internship. In other words, apply the lessons to
your experience in a prior job or internship. If you have not yet had a job or internship, apply the lessons
to your experience as a member of a team/organization/course at your prior university/school. We expect
you to analyze the situation, perform critical analysis, and generate recommendations and conclusions.

Do not write about a situation you covered in one of the Individual Written Assignments you have already
written for this course. For example, if your ‘one key lesson’ is about leading a change effort, you cannot
write about the situation you described in that Individual Written Assignment.

Do not search for additional sources in writing your papers; please use only the cases, articles, videos, etc.
assigned in the course. If there is an article you have read which pertains to the topic and you want to
reference it, feel free. But again, these are NOT research papers – use only the content covered in the
course.
### The grading rubric is as follows – each bullet below reduces the grade by 6-9 points:

*  An argument refutes case/article facts and/or is not supported by information in the case/article.
### *  An analysis of the possible consequences or implications of your recommendations is not included in

the paper. We want you to think critically about the situation and your recommendations.
*  Assumptions are missing and/or not well-articulated.
*  The paper does not stay focused on its core points and/or lacks any particular point of focus.
*  The paper is too short and does not include enough detail.
*  An assertion is made but not defended, elaborated, not clearly articulated.
*  Too much fact restatement and not enough analysis and original thinking. Don’t just list/state facts, also
consider what those facts mean and how they impact your conclusions and arguments. You should not
repeat in detail what happened in the case; we (the professor and TA) have read the cases and articles,
so we know what happened. Instead, focus your writing on analysis, recommendations and conclusions.
*  Excessive poor grammar, run-on sentences, etc.
*  The paper is too long, exceeding the recommended 1600-word upper limit by more than 100 words.
*  Missing/improper footnoting. You are required to footnote all sources, including any assigned
articles and case studies. The recommended form of footnoting is the Chicago Manual of Style. This
website clearly describes this method:
https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/chicago_manual_17th_edition/cmos_formatting_and_
style_guide/general_format.html
*  Assignments submitted late receive a 9-point reduction.
## 7. Written and Oral Communication Assistance

For assistance with the written assignments and/or oral communication, please visit the Student Academic
Success Center (SASC). SASC tutors can provide instruction on a range of communication topics and can
help you improve your papers and presentations. The SASC is a free service open to all students. You can
make tutoring appointments, sign up for workshops, and learn about other resources on their website
at https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communication-support/index.html
## 8. Academic Statement

You are expected to attend class, be prepared for class and participate in the discussions. Written assignments
are due on or before the due date. If you must miss a class, please notify me with as much advanced notice as
Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 4 of 10

possible; if you cannot talk with me directly, please leave a message on my voice mail or on my e-mail. For
any class that you miss, you are responsible for obtaining the notes and related materials from another
student.

Please let me know if you do not understand class material or requirements or if any special circumstance
prevents you from completing a class requirement on time.

You are responsible to know and adhere to all University policies on academic integrity. Heinz College
provides a booklet on Plagiarism and Cheating and the University lists all policies on the web at
www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html; please acquaint yourself with the contents. Any academic
integrity violation will result in a score of ‘0’ points for that assignment AND will result in either a reduced
course grade or a failing course grade.
## 9. Using Artificial Intelligence

### Facts and Evidence:

*  The main purpose of being a student is to learn and become a critical thinker. AI can negatively impact
our ability to learn and critically analyze and resolve situations/problems.
*  AI can be factually incorrect, i.e. it ‘hallucinates’.
*  AI currently does not cite sources, which is unacceptable in an academic setting (plagiarism).
### Requirements and Expectations for this course:

### *  Entering the assignment question into AI and then having AI write your paper or sections of your paper

is considered an academic integrity violation.
*  Using AI for grammar and writing style is acceptable. For example, many students use ‘Grammarly’.
### *  If you use AI on your paper (this does not include Microsoft Word spell check and Microsoft Word

grammar check), you must inform the professor. Write the AI platform you used, the reason you used it,
and how it helped you. Include this information at the end or your paper or as a footnote.
### *  If you are concerned about how your use of AI may impact your grade and performance in the course,

please contact the professor before you use AI for an assignment.

AI and Academic Integrity: Using AI for any purposes or in any manner other than described above will be
considered an academic integrity violation, resulting in a score of ‘0’ points for that assignment
AND resulting in either a reduced course grade or a failing course grade.
## 10. Student Wellness

Diminished mental health, including significant stress, mood changes, excessive worry, or problems with
eating and/or sleeping can interfere with optimal academic performance. The source of symptoms might be
strictly related to your course work; if so, please speak with me. However, problems with relationships,
family worries, loss, or a personal struggle or crisis can also contribute to decreased academic performance.

CMU provides mental health services to support the academic success of students. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) offers free, confidential services to help you manage personal challenges. In
the event I suspect you need additional support, I will express my concerns and the reasons for them, and
remind you of campus resources (e.g., CaPS, Dean of Students, etc.) that might be helpful to you. It is not my
intention to know the details of what might be bothering you, but simply to let you know I am concerned and
that help, if needed, is available. Getting help is a smart and courageous thing to do --for yourself and for
those who care about you.
## 11. Accommodations for Students with Disabilities

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage
you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with
you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability
Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 5 of 10

and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
## 12. Recording academic classroom activities, lectures, etc.

Classroom activities, lectures, etc. may not be recorded without written permission from me (the instructor) in
advance. If I permit a student to record classroom activities, lectures, etc., the student may do so for his/her
own personal use only; additionally, no copies of the original recording can be made.
****************************************************************************************
# COURSE SCHEDULE

For each class listed below, there are ‘Instructions and Study Questions’ to be used to guide and assist as you
prepare for class. I do not expect written responses to these ‘Instructions and Study Questions’; these are NOT to
be answered for the ‘Individual Written Assignments’, which are detailed separately below.
### January 16 – Class #1

Topics: Course Introduction
Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
1. “The Case Method” by David Lassman
## 2. Course Syllabus

Instructions and Study Questions: Please read “The Case Method” and the syllabus in preparation for class.
### Individual Written Assignment: None

***************************************************************************************************************************
Topics: Organization Culture
Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
1. “Organizational Culture” by David Lassman
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. What are the positives and negatives of your organization’s culture?

a) Are layers in alignment?
b) Is the culture in alignment with the external environment? Is it strategically appropriate?
c) If there are cultural misalignments, how did they develop and what are the consequences?
## 2. Does your organization have ‘fundamental assumptions” or “open secrets”? How does that impact

your organization?
## 3. You may have an organization with a strong, well-aligned culture. If that is the case, what do you

attribute this to, i.e. how did this culture develop?
## 4. What are the consequences of your culture? i.e. what is the impact of the culture on your

organization’s employees?
### Individual Written Assignment: None

### January 23 – Class #2

### Topics: Ethics and Understanding Personal Values

Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. The Analyst’s Dilemma (A) (HBR 9-394-056)

2. “The Discipline of Building Character” by Joseph Badaracco, Jr. (HBR 98201)
3. “A Framework for Ethical Decision Making” at this website (this article is not posted on Canvas):
https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/a-framework-for-ethical-decision-making/
### Instructions and Study Questions:

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 6 of 10

## 1. Think about 'defining moments' in your life, as defined by Joseph L. Badaracco, Jr. in his article "The

Discipline of Building Character". Please come to class prepared to share and discuss your 'defining
moments'. What did you do and why? What was the result?
## 2. How does one balance loyalty to friends with loyalty to one’s company? Is there a reasonable limit to the

degree of devotion people are expected to show their employers? Can people separate their private lives
from their business responsibilities?

Individual Written Assignment #1: For this assignment, please read “The Analyst’s Dilemma”, “The
Discipline of Building Character” and “A Framework for Thinking Ethically” and answer the following
question:
We will call the woman who works at Bullard and Bartell (B&B), who is the protagonist in the case,
‘Amy’. As is clear in the case, Amy has not yet decided what to do regarding the situation with Lori.

What course of action do you recommend for Amy and why, i.e. what specifically should Amy do and
why?

According to “The Analyst’s Dilemma” case in the second paragraph on page 2: “Most problematic is
the fact that Bill, the senior banker from Universal on the deal, was out of the country, and his team
intended to wait until he returned to New York to inform the B&B deal team of the situation. He
would be back on Monday at the earliest.” For the purposes of this Individual Written Assignment,
assume there is no way to contact Bill (no phone, no internet, nothing) until he returns to New York,
which is Monday at the earliest.

NOTE: The grading rubric is on page 3 of this syllabus.
### January 30 – Class #3

### Topics: Incentives, Motivation, and Inspiration

Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Watch Daniel Pink video at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u6XAPnuFjJc

## 2. Excerpt from Pfeffer's "What Were They Thinking?" on incentives (pages 74-80)

3. “Incentives in Health Care Articles”
Instructions and Study Questions: What have you personally experienced with both financial (moneybased) and non-financial incentive systems? Did the systems work and if so, why? If the systems did not
work, why didn’t they?

NOTE: In one week, we will discuss the book, The Five Dysfunctions of a Team, in class. The book will
probably require 4-5 hours to read, so you might want to start reading the book now.
***************************************************************************************************************************
Topics: Organization Structure
Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
1. ‘Acme Corp. - Organization Structure’ case by David Lassman. The ‘Acme Corporation Organization
Chart’ is very detailed; please study it carefully.

2. “First, Let’s Fire All the Managers” by Gary Hamel (HBR R1112B)
3. “Organization Structure” by David Lassman
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Think about organization structures that you have experienced working in various organizations. How

many layers existed between the bottom and the top? Were the organization structures effective; for
example: were problems resolved quickly, was communication smooth, were employees focused and
busy, did the organization achieve its goals and objectives? Did the structures create ‘office politics’?
## 2. In your opinion, what does an ideal organization structure look like? What is the role of ‘organization

structure’, i.e. what does an organization structure do for an organization or why does an organization
need a structure?

Individual Written Assignment #2: Identify two or three issues confronting Dave Lassman at Acme Corp.
and address the following for each issue:
## 1. Why should this particular issue be addressed?

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 7 of 10

## 2. What are your specific recommendations for David Lassman to address this issue?

## 3. What could be the repercussions of implementing your recommendation and how will you address

these repercussions? How do you think the peers and/or subordinates of the person(s) impacted might
react?
## 4. Consider what additional information you would like to have before finalizing your recommendation.

In other words, what additional information would help you feel more confident in your
recommendation?

NOTE: The grading rubric is on page 3 of this syllabus.
### February 6 – Class #4

Topics: Organization Structure (continued from previous class); Teams
Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. The book by Patrick Lencioni, The Five Dysfunctions of a Team: A Leadership Fable. Available

electronically and in hard copy at the CMU library.

2. “Speaking While Female”
3. “Why Some Teams are Smarter Than Others”
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Analyze a team you are on currently at work or were on recently at work/university. Does the team

have any of the 5 dysfunctions? If not, why not? If it does have some of the dysfunctions, why does it
have them and what can you do to correct it? It may be helpful to use the 'team assessment model' on
pages 190-194.
## 2. Have you ever been on a strong functioning team at you current employer or at a previous employer?

Why did it function so well? What actions did the leaders and the team members take to make it not
'dysfunctional'? What role did you play in helping the team not be dysfunctional?
***************************************************************************************************************************
### Topic: Teams; Having Difficult Conversations

Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Medisys Corp.: The IntensCare Product Development Team (HBR 4059)

## 2. Excerpt from Practicing Positive Leadership by Kim Cameron, Chapter 4 (pages 79-98): ‘How to

### Deliver Negative Feedback Positively’

### Instructions and Study Questions for Medisys Corp:

In class, we will do some role-playing, so please be prepared to step into the shoes of one of the people in the
case.
## 1. How well is the IntensCare Product Development Team performing? What forces are affecting the

IntensCare team’s behavior, culture and outcomes?
## 2. How important is IntensCare to the company?

## 3. What do you expect will happen at a team meeting (to resolve the modules issue for example)? How

would you feel and act/react if you were Valerie, Jack or one of the other team members? Ideally, how
would you like to see the other team members act?
## 4. To what extent should all team members be responsible for doing things to ensure the team’s success

regardless of both 1) their level/status in the organization and 2) the amount of organizational support for
the program?
## 5. What does the team need from upper management?

## 6. Is the Medisys team experiencing any of the five dysfunctions?

### Instructions and Study Questions for Difficult Conversations:

Consider when you have had a difficult conversation with someone. This could be a conversation you had
with a work colleague, a work subordinate, a friend, a family member, etc. Did the discussion achieve the
desired outcome? What was the impact of this difficult conversation on all parties: 1) you, 2) the recipient of
your criticism, and 3) any other involved/interested parties?

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 8 of 10

Individual Written Assignment #3: For this assignment, please read ‘Medisys Corp.: The IntensCare
### Product Development Team’ and the assigned article(s) on teamwork and answer the following question:

In the last few paragraphs of the case (on the bottom of page 7), Valerie Merz overhears a conversation
between Bret O’Brien and Jack Fogel, and she quickly considers two actions: 1) walking into the
conference room or 2) walking into Beaumont's office and handing in her resignation. What do you
recommend Valerie do and why? Your recommendation can be one of the two mentioned in the case or
one of your own or some combination thereof.

NOTE: The grading rubric is on page 3 of this syllabus.
### February 13 – Class #5

Topics: Teams; Having Difficult Conversations (continued from previous class)
### Case and Article Assignment: None

### Instructions and Study Questions: None

***************************************************************************************************************************
### Topics: Performance Evaluations; Hiring

Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
### 1. “A Failing Grade for Performance Reviews”

2. “Guess Who Doesn’t Fit in at Work?”
## 3. Video on bias at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B6uuIHpFkuo

### Instructions and Study Questions:

Consider when you have had a difficult conversation with someone. This could be a conversation you had
with a work colleague, a work subordinate, a friend, a family member, etc. Did the discussion achieve the
desired outcome? What was the impact of this difficult conversation on all parties: 1) you, 2) the recipient of
your criticism, and 3) any other involved/interested parties?

Individual Written Assignment #4: Choose one past workplace (or your current workplace) and describe
your experiences with the performance evaluation process, when you were being evaluated. If you do not
have work experience, describe your experiences with performance feedback at your university, which can be
from a course, a sports team, a student club, etc.
a) What were the goals of the process? For example, goals might be “the supervisor provided me with
constructive feedback so that I could improve my future performance” or “I was given an opportunity
to provide feedback to my supervisor to improve our working relationship” or “my manager gets to
check a box and fulfill a requirement from HR” (I realize this last one is a little cynical).
b) What were the biggest weaknesses (or areas in need of improvement) of the process?
c) What do you recommend to improve these weaknesses?
d) Was your pay in some way connected with the results of the performance evaluation? If so, how?
e) How did you ‘feel’ before, during and after the process?

NOTE: The grading rubric is on page 3 of this syllabus.
### February 20 – Class #6

Topics: Leading Change
Case and Article Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. David Lassman at E-L Products

2. “Leading Change: Why Transformation Efforts Fail” by John Kotter (HBR R0701J)
Instructions and Study Questions: The questions are in the final paragraph of the case. When thinking about
these questions, consider how the eight points in Kotter’s article apply in this situation.

Individual Written Assignment #5: This assignment pertains to your experiences with change efforts
analyzed via the framework in the article “Leading Change: Why Transformation Efforts Fail.” Consider a
change effort you have led or been a part of at your current job, at your most recent job, or at your
university/school:
a) Briefly describe the change effort, i.e. describe what is being changed.

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 9 of 10

b) Analyze the change effort using all 8 steps of Kotter’s model. Which of Kotter’s 8 steps did the
organization do well and why? Which of Kotter’s 8 steps did the organization have problems with and
why?
c) How could this organization have managed the change more effectively? Identify and describe some
specific actions.

NOTE: The grading rubric is on page 3 of this syllabus
***************************************************************************************************************************
### Topics: Technical Skills and People Skills

### Case and Article Assignment:

1. “Google’s Quest to Build a Better Boss” by Adam Bryant, 3/12/2011 ‘New York Times’.
### Instructions and Study Questions: None

February 27 – Class #7 (last class)
### Topics: Leadership; Skills/Fulfillment; Course Wrap-up

### Case and Article Assignment:

1. “How Will You Measure Your Life” by Clayton Christensen (HBR R1007B)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. What are you really good at? What or your skills, your gifts? These are often things you do very well

at work. Consider both the people skills and the technical skills.
## 2. What gives your life purpose and fulfillment? Some prompts to help you:

a. What do you like to think about? Where does your mind wander?
b. What do you really care about? What matters most to you? What do you want your legacy to be?
c. How do you enjoy spending your time? And, in contrast, what do you find absolutely unbearable?
d. Your hobbies, your volunteer activities, what you enjoy reading, and what you talk about with
friends and family can help you uncover your purpose/fulfillment.
e. And if you can’t find it now, think back to your teen years, which when vocational interests
commonly sprout.
## 3. Does your current job (or the job you most recently held) utilize your skills and does it fulfill you?

Ideally you will find a job that uses your skills, that makes you feel fulfilled and purposeful.
## 4. When considering whether or not to accept a job offer, what other factors should you consider, other

than skills and fulfillment?

Optional Skills/Fulfillment Exercise (NOT graded): If you choose, you can submit your responses to the
‘Instructions and Study Questions’ above, which will help me better prepare for the class discussion. This
assignment is optional and ungraded.

Course Evaluation: Please complete the ‘Organizational Design and Implementation Case/Article
Evaluation’ form, which you received at the beginning of the course, and submit it via Canvas. I value your
feedback so please take the time to complete this carefully.

Revision Date: 1/12/25 Page 10 of 10