# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, first, the script, Friday, class, the coverage, Screenwriting, September, Bianca, 10
**Document Length**: 5081 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course Script and Story Analysis

Information Fall 2024 Course Number: 93.861 Semester Credit Hours: 6 HBH 1202
Class 1 Fri. Sept 6 12:30 - 3:20pm
Class 2 Sat. Sept. 7. 10:00am - 1:30pm
Class 3 Mon. Sept. 9. 6:30 - 9:50pm
Class 4 Fri. Sept. 13. 12:30 - 3:20pm
Class 5 Fri. Oct. 11 12:30 - 3:20pm
Class 6 Fri. Nov 1 12:30 - 3:20pm
Instructor: Dr. Daniel T. Green dtgreen@andrew.cmu.edu
### Teacher’s Assistant:

Devyn Hinkle dhinkle@andrew.cmu.edu
Abbie Whitehurst awhitehu@andrew.cmu.edu
(While Devyn and Abbie will not physically be in class, they will be available for zoom meetings,
office hours, and to help with assignments)
Description This course is aimed at gaining a better understanding of the creative process in both film and
television as it relates to story and script analysis. Topics will include character development,
dramatic tone, styles, genres, the adaptability of source material into scripts and the creative
process from the point of view of the writer. Further emphasis will be given to generating ideas
and concepts; networking and readers.

Class Sharing This is a class that examines how writing shapes the entertainment industry and how story is
essential in sustaining TV, Film and digital media as an art form. Story will be the key to what we
study in class. At times student assignments will be shared with others in the class. This may
include reading aloud from selections or seeing the writing of others. This is done with the
expectation that all in class respect and honor the work of others. It is not important that some
may have more experience than others. The quality of the work is secondary to the experience of
creating. All involved in the class should have the expectation that their work will be shared and
examined so that all can grow from the experience.

Required Texts/ I will be posting various readings. However, if you are going to buy a good book that will help you
Readings analyze story and character journey, that would be The Writer’s Journey by Christopher Vogler
(Michael Wiese Productions 1992)
### Additional handouts include:

Aristotle’s Poetics (Handout)
Aristotle’s Poetics for Screenwriters by Michael Tierno (Handout)
The Screenplay Sell by Alan Trustman (Handout)
Backwards and Forwards by David Ball (Handout)
Suggested Texts: OTHER READINGS ON SCRIPTS and STORYTELLING: Our time together for the class
will be short but you might find the following books helpful if you would like further
information.
*  20 Master Plots and How To Build Them by Ronald Tobias (Writer's Digest 1993)
### *  Aristotle’s Poetics

### *  Aristotle’s Poetics for Screenwriters by Michael Tierno (2002)

### *  Beginnings, Middles, & Ends by Nancy Kress (Writer's Digest Books 1993)

### *  Billion-dollar Kiss: The Kiss That Saved Dawson’s Creek and Other Adventures in TV

### Writing by Jeffrey Stepakoff

### *  Rebel Without A Crew by Robert Rodriquez (Penguin Books 1995)

### *  Save The Cat: The Last Book You’ll Ever Need About Screenwriting by Blake Snyder

(Michael Wiese Productions, 2005)
### *  Screenplay: The Foundations of Screenwriting by Syd Field (Bantam Dell, 2005)

### *  Screenplay Sell: What Every Writer Should Know by Alan Trustman (Universe 2003)

### *  Screenwriting For Film and TV by William Miller (Allyn and Bacon 1998)

### *  Screenwriting 434, Lew Hunter’s by Lew Hunter (Perigee Books 1994)

### *  Sleepless In Hollywood: Tales From The New Abnormal in the Movie Business by

Lynda Obst (Simon & Schuster, 2013)
### *  Story: Substance, Structure, Style, and the Principles of Screenwriting by Robert

McKee (HarperCollins, 1977)
*  Streaming, Sharing, Stealing: Big Data and the Fuure of Entertainment by Michael D.

Smith and Rahul Telang (MIT Press, 2016)
### *  Which Lie Did I Tell –More Adventures in the Screen Trade by William Goldman

(Vintage Books 2000)
Required There are two mandatory films I’d like to you to view. We have DVD copies of the films in the
Viewings: PPM Coordinator’s office, AnaBella Lassiter <alassite@andrew.cmu.edu>
She can be found in Hamburg Suite 1115. She also has several other films on file that we’ve
recommended over the years should you have the time to view some.

The TV Set (w) Kasdan (d) Jake Kasdan (2007) The analysis of the development process is wellarticulated in the film.
- You can find it on Roku (free)/Tubi (free)/ Fandago ($2.50)/ Vudu ($2.99)/ Amazon
Prime (2.99) Apple TV (3.99)
Book Smart (w) Emily Halpern, Sarah Haskins and Susanna Fogel (d) Olivia Wilde. (2019)
- Starz (free)/ Redbox (2.99)/ Vudu (3.99)/ Google Play (3.99)/ Apple TV (3.99)/ Amazon
Prime (Free otherwise $3.99)/ Fandango (3.99) YouTube (3.99)
Suggested I will be referencing several films and some TV shows. It would be helpful if you were familiar
Viewings: with these. I am assuming some of you will know certain films and some will not. No need to
worry. If I mention a film you are unfamiliar, please make note of it and see it when you have
some free time. It’s worth keeping a list of films that people recommend as you examine story in
entertainment.

Assignments ASSIGNMENTS: Several of the assignments are hinged to one another… so don’t fall behind.

Many of the assignments are based on your own instinct and creativity. Some of the assignments
are listed at the end of this syllabus.

COVERAGE: Since many of you will make your first foray into the entertainment business by
doing Script Coverage, one of your early assignments will be reading a script and analyzing it in a
critical manner. I will go into specific details on what I expect with this assignment.
### Learning/Course By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Analyze story logic and structure by *  In class discussions
looking at the works from Aristotle to *  Coverage
Vogler *  Vogler
### *  Quiz

### *  Final

Gain experience doing script coverage as *  In class discussions
you learn to identify strengths and *  Discovering Picasso/Outside Source
weaknesses of literary material *  Coverage
Develop effective ways to pitch and hone *  In-class discussions
presentation skills *  Discovering Picasso/Outside Source
### *  Quiz/Final

Recognize the viability of source material *  In-class discussions
and how to adjust story based on *  Plots
development notes *  Generating Ideas: The Next Step
### *  Quizzes/Final

Examine the roles of the writer and *  Challenging Ideas
development executive within the *  Plots
production food chain *  Quizzes/Final
Provide a historical reference to the role of *  In-class discussion
the writer *  Generating Ideas: The Next Step
Evaluation Method The focus of the grading will be divided in the following areas. However, due to larger numbers
of students in the class year, we may drop an assignment. If that is the case, students will be
given full percentage points for that assignment.

Assignment/Test/Quiz Percentage Due Date (may
change depending on
class schedule) Times
are Eastern Standard
1.Coverage Warm-Up: Ten Things I Hate 10% Mon. 9/9@6:00pm
About You Assignment
2.Coverage Assignment 25% Sat. 9/21 @12:00pm
## 3. Discovering Picasso/ Outside Source 10% Sat 9/7@10am

## 4. Challenging Ideas 5% TBD

5.Vogler Assignment 20% TBD
6.Generating Ideas: The Next Step 10% TBD
## 7. Final Exam 10% Fri. Nov 1

8.Class process, readings, participation and 10% On-Going
development
Plots (TBD-extra credit -may not get to this) +3% TBD
Reading/Viewing Assignments
Reading Friday, 10/11
Vogler: The Writer’s Journey p. 13-31
Reading: Friday, 10/11
### Aristotle’s Poetics for Screenwriters

Reading: The Screenplay Sell Chapter Friday, 10/11
Reading: Backwards and Forwards Chapter Friday, 10/11
Viewing: Book Smart Friday, 10/11
Viewing: The TV Set Friday, 10/11
### Class Participation Grading for Class Participation

### Rubric A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
via zoom and always regularly via regularly via regularly via
and contributes to the zoom and zoom but rarely zoom but never
discussion by raising sometimes contributes to the contributes to the
Quality thoughtful questions, contributes to discussion in the discussion
analyzing relevant the discussion aforementioned in the
issues, building on in the ways. aforementioned
others’ ideas, aforementioned ways.
synthesizing across ways.
readings and
discussions, expanding
the class’ perspective,
and appropriately
challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading Scale*
A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Minimum Passing
C- 71.0-73.9% Failing
Plagiarism and
cheating notice* Plagiarism
Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious
matters. Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the
most serious violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a
required paper or as cheating on an examination, including take-home as well as in-class
examinations. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program
and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

### *  Plagiarism (explained below);

### *  Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

### *  Submission or use of falsified data;

### *  Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

### *  Use of a stand-in for an exam;

### *  Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an

examination;
### *  Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an

assignment or exam;
*  Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly
permitted by an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
*  Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes.

The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from
the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is
therefore equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points)
for that assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the
offending student’s assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0)
will be factored into the grade.

A cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and
plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be
imposed, up to and including expulsion from the Heinz School.

The Use of While AI is sometimes used in story-telling, for this class, any use of generative AI for any graded
Artificial component of this course is explicitly prohibited. Using ChatGPT or other generative AI to
Intelligence
generate any course content will be considered an academic integrity violation (see above
regarding plagiarism). I may ask you to experiment with AI as an exploration exercise, but I will
be very clear about if that happens. Do not use AI for your coverage assignments. Reach out to
me if you have any questions related to this.

Note About Some of the films and TV shows we will be discussing may examine issues related to race,
Sensitive Materials class, gender, violence, etc. If you find yourself uncomfortable with a particular topic, please
let me know. You may also excuse yourself if for some reason a discussion brings up personal
discomfort due to subject matter. Our classroom should be a safe space for you to explore and
discuss material and you must do what you need to in order to take care of yourself and your
classmates.

Taking Care of Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
Yourself drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep, and taking time to relax. Despite what you might hear,
using your time to take care of yourself will actually help you achieve your academic goals more
than spending too much time studying.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or difficult
feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Consider reaching
out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for assistance connecting to the support that
can help. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here for you: call 412-268-2922 and
visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Over 25% of students reach out to CaPS
some time during their time at CMU.
### If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal, call someone immediately, day or night:

### *  CaPS: 412-268-2922

### *  Resolve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226

### *  If the situation is life threatening, call the Police:

### *  On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323 Off campus: 911

Diversity We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity
Statement is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. We, at
CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion. It is my intent that students from all
diverse backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course, and that the diversity that
students bring to this class be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit.

Course Policies & Absences/ Tardy: If you know you are going to be late or have to miss a class, please contact me
Expectations * prior to class via email or leave a message for me on my cell (323) 717-6481.

You have to leave the city of your comfort and go into the wilderness of your intuition. What
you'll discover will be wonderful. What you'll discover will be yourself. - Alan Alda
Course/Topical
Outline: Class 1 – Friday, September 6, 2025 12:30 – 3:30pm -Hamburg 1202
Topic Class overview /// Orientation to the profession /// Importance of Story
Telling///Generating ideas /// Aristotle and The Poetics /// 6 elements of
Drama///Character /// Catharsis /// Dramatic Action /// Oedipus/// Egri///
### Greek Masters & Stanislavski/// Introduce Coverage

Required *  The Writer’s Journey by Christopher Vogler, pages 13- 31
### Readings *  Aristotle’s Poetics for Screenwriters by Michael Tierno

(Handouts) due *  The Screenplay Sell by Alan Trustman
in Oct/ 25 Things *  Backwards and Forwards by David Ball
### due Mon Sept 9

*  10 Things I Hate About You (first 25 pages)
Class 2 – Saturday, September 7 2024 10:00am – 1:30pm Hamburg 1202
Topic The Doing of Dramatic Action /// Dramatic tone /// Plot /// Theme ///
Credibility in characters///Character View Point///Dis. Event///Skill Sets///
### The Creative Cycle///Protagonist vs. Antagonist

### Deliverable *  Discovering Picasso & Outside Source

Class 3 – Monday, September 9, 2024 6:00pm – 9:00pm Hamburg 1202
Topic Concept///Beginnings Middle and Ends /// Material from the classics ///
Adaptability of source material /// Repetition of plots/// Character Description ///
///Pitching
### Deliverable *  10 Things I Hate About You

Class 4 - Friday, September 13, 2024 12:30 – 3:30pm Hamburg 1202
Topic Common story structure /// Dramatic tone /// The Pitch/// Poltis/// Script
Structure (film)
Class 5 - Friday, October 11, 2024 12:30 – 3:30pm Hamburg Room 1202
Topic Vogler/// The Writer’s Journey – Mythic structure /// The Visual Story///
Compressing Action ///
### Required How Desi Invented Television

Listening https://www.npr.org/2021/01/22/959609533/how-desi-invented-television
Class 6 - Friday, November 1, 2024 12:30 – 3:30pm Hamburg Room 1202
Topic Television continued /// Tightening scenes /// Begin Television Narrative ///
Hour Series /// Half Hour Series /// Strength in Advertising ///
Invisible Fiction - /// Typical multi story outline/// Visual Story ///
Compressing Action continued /// Camera Overview /// Pilot Season ///
Ticking Bomb ///
Deliverable Final Exam
# ASSIGNMENTS

# CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

# MASTER OF ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY MANAGEMENT

Script and Story Analysis 93.861
### Instructor: Daniel T. Green

### Coverage Warn-Up: 10 Things I Hate About You

Assignment #1
Due
Monday, September 9, 2024 by 6:00pm EST –If you have any problems submitting to canvas, please email
the coverage warm-up to me. For all assignments, please label the email and the assignment as follows:
LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, COVERAGE WARM-UP: 10 THINGS… If possible, please bring in a hard
copy to class
Assignment Focus
While you will be doing a full coverage assignment in class, in order to get practice, we will first explore how to
succinctly summarize several pages of a script into a few paragraphs. When starting out doing coverage for the
first time, people tend to over-write or under-write. Finding the proper balance is a talent that is gained through
practice. Readers (analysts) are the companies' first and best line of defense. You will be acting as the reader in
this coverage situation.

Script Location
You can find the first 25 pages on Canvas under FILES/ COVERAGE RELATED/ 10 THINGS I HATE
ABOUT YOU pdf.

Action
Read the first 25 pages of the script 10 Things I Hate About You written by written by Karen McCullah
Lutz & Kirsten Smith and summarize those pages in 2-3 paragraphs total. We have given you the first
paragraph as an example. Use this paragraph and rewrite the rest. Keep in mind that you do not need to
include all information when covering a script. Instead, pick the main (important) characters who are doing
something (actions) and focus on what needs to be explained so an executive, agent, or creative can
understand the script and what is happening. Think of this as the practice for the regular coverage.

First Paragraph of Assignment (Use this as your 1st paragraph. If you want to alter it check with me first
In Portland, OR, two cliché-cute HIGH SCHOOL GIRLS are driving in their car, singing along to an
upbeat song as KAT STRATFORD, 18, pulls up next to them in her rundown car and scowls at their
happiness. Kat walks towards the front door of Padua High School -aka- the “Wayne Manor” of high
schools, and immediately tears down a poster from the wall that’s advertising prom as she continues
through the doors. Meanwhile, CAMERON JAMES, 16, a clean-cut, easy-going new kid is shown around
the school pointing out various social groups by MICHAEL ECKMAN, 16, an overachieving, A/V geek of
a senior. Cameron is suddenly mesmerized as sophomore BIANCA STRATFORD, 16, a beautiful, ditzy
blonde girl walks past them. Cameron asks what group Bianca belongs to and Michael quickly advises him
that she is off-limits because it’s widely known that the Stratford sisters (Bianca is Kat’s younger sister) are
not allowed to date. Bianca’s dad, WALTER, 40’s, an obstetrician, says Bianca can go on a date when her
older sister, Kat goes on a date. He knows Kat has no interest in dating so he feels his service as a guy who
delivers babies will not be needed by his daughters.

Coverage Warm-Up ‘Must Haves’
Top of page
Please include the following at the top of you page in the exact manner listed below. Points will be taken
off for omissions or wrong placement. Use 12-point font, in Times New Roman or Calibri, single spaced.

TYPE OF MATERIAL: Screenplay, TV show TITLE: 10 Things I Hate About You
NUMBER OF PAGES: Page count (25) AUTHOR: Author’s name
SUBMITTED TO: DAN GREEN CIRCA: When it takes place? 1960’s, Present
ANALYST: YOUR NAME LOCATION: Setting – Where it takes place?

DATE: Date you did coverage
Grading
Grading includes writing style, grammar, and punctuation usage. Other things that will be considered
include ease of the read, clarity, how you summarize and articulate what is happening in the script. Make
sure you re-read the coverage warm-up before you hand it in. People make several easy mistakes that
could be fixed by proofing their work.
# CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

# MASTERS OF ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY MANAGEMENT

Script and Story Analysis 93.861
### Instructor: Daniel T. Green

Coverage
Assignment #2
Due Saturday, September 21, 2024 by 12:00pm EST – Please submit via Canvas. If you have any concerns,
email the coverage to me and cc Devyn or Abbie
### Email as LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, FOUNTAIN COVERAGE

Assignment Focus
Coverage is the most popular way for executives and creative types to find out about a script before having
to actually read it. It’s a report that most agency or studio submitted scripts receive. The script gets
"covered”, meaning it gets reviewed, hence the name coverage. Readers are the companies' first and best
line of defense. You will be acting as the reader in this coverage situation.

Action
Read the script and do coverage for THE FOUNTAIN. Look at the sample coverage for ideas on how to
articulate your opinion in a critical professional manner. This is not a personal review in a trade magazine,
but rather, analyses for people who may want to read the script or in the best-case scenario, purchase the
script.

Coverage ‘Must Haves’
Top of page
Please include the following at the top of you page in the exact manner listed below. Points will be taken
off for omissions or wrong placement.

TYPE OF MATERIAL: Screenplay, TV show TITLE: Title of piece
NUMBER OF PAGES: Page count AUTHOR: Author’s name
SUBMITTED TO: DAN GREEN CIRCA: 1960’s, Present
### ANALYST: YOUR NAME LOCATION: Setting – Denver, CO

DATE: Date you did coverage
Body of Coverage
LOGLINE: - SINGLE SPACED - A sentence that sums up the entire story. Note that this is the only line
that some executives will read, so it should be crafted succinctly and clearly.

SUMMARY: SINGLE SPACED - A summary of the important things that are happening throughout the
piece. You do not need to include every event that occurs, but only the things that are important. This will
most likely be one to two pages, though it could be more. For this assignment the important thing is to
make sure the story is explained to someone who is not reading the script. SINGLE SPACED, NOT
DOUBLE SPACED. CAPTITALIZE the character’s names when they first appear and make sure that it
includes age or occupation if it is important. Avoid personal comments like, “We see the character walk out
of the store.” Or “We can tell she is unhappy.” Keep the writing clean and out of first-person description.

COMMENTS: DOUBLE SPACED - This is your opportunity to comment on what did and did not work.

You can compare it to other works if it is appropriate. You can talk about the relevancy of the script and
why or why not the script may be appropriate for your company or the person receiving the coverage.

RATINGS: Rate the following as either: (put your rating AFTER the comment section)
### EXCELLENT/ GOOD/ FAIR/ POOR

### STORY:

### CHARACTER:

### DIALOGUE:

### WRITER’S STYLE:

### STRUCTURE:

### SETTING ORIGINALITY:

### PRODUCTION VALUE:

### Finally, end your coverage by saying what you would do with the script. Your four options are:

### PASS/ CONSIDER WITH RESERVATIONS/ CONSIDER/ RECOMMEND:

Pass – No one needs to read the script. It’s no good.

Consider with Reservations – While there are problems and the script doesn’t work, there are some
redeeming factors. This will make the executive read the coverage to see what you are referring to
Consider – While not a great script, there is something that works. You were entertained in certain areas
while reading or perhaps the subject matter is perfect for your company
Recommend – This script is terrific! I was moved! A ‘Recommend’ is seldom given in this business, but
feel free to ‘Recommend’ if you think the script is that good.

You are being asked for your opinion, so be honest and fair. What would you do if you had the power to
green-light a picture and you read this script first?

Grading
Grading includes writing style, grammar, and punctuation usage. Other things that will be considered
include ease of the read, following the guidelines listed in this document and how you summarize and
articulate your point of view. Make sure you re-read the coverage before you hand it in to me. People
make several easy mistakes that could be fixed by proofing their work.

Rubric for Coverage
Note these are only ranges. Refer to Heinz grading scale in syllabus for plus/minus categories
Criteria Minimum passing or failing Acceptable Excellent
C range or lower B range A range
Content Major story elements are Certain major story elements Major story elements are laid
35% max missing. Character are missing or not defined. out clearly and are included
development is not articulated. Some character development in a logical order in respect
Events are not presented with is not articulated. Some events for character development.
respect to the author’s writing. are not presented with respect All necessary events are
Comment section is unspecific to the author’s writing. presented with respect to the
or repetitive. Comment section is not as author’s writing. Comments
clear as they should be. There are clear and well-stated with
is some repetition. specific examples backing up
opinions.

Grammar There are several grammar There are a few grammar There are no grammar
& problems, misspelled words, problems, misspelled words, problems, misspelled words,
Mechanics improperly identified improperly identified improperly identified
15% characters, poor punctuation. characters, poor punctuation. characters, poor punctuation.

Clarity and The coverage is not always The coverage is mostly clear The coverage is clear and
Tone clear or easy to understand. The and easy to understand. The easy to understand. The
25% author uses imprecise words author uses precise words for author uses precise words,
and tends to over-write. The the most part and tends to writes in a concise manner,
writer doesn't always use the write in a concise manner. The writes in the active voice (not
active voice and at times uses writer mostly writes in the past tense) and uses
past tense when not needed. active voice (not past tense) professional language.

Writer uses unprofessional and typically uses professional
language. language.

Format Writer does not use proper Writer mostly uses proper Writer uses proper format for
25% format for the assignment or format for both the assignment both the assignment and
within the coverage. and within the coverage. within the coverage.

Character’s ages are not used, Characters are typically Characters are properly
wrongly capitalized, and properly identified and identified and introduced,
coverage is not spaced introduced, and spacing is and spacing is correct
properly. Format problems mostly correct. Format of the throughout. Format of the
include missing headings, assignment is mostly correct assignment is correct
logline, summary, comments including presentation of including presentation of
and rating. heading, logline, summary, heading, logline, summary,
comments and rating. comments and rating.
# CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

### Masters of Entertainment Industry Management

### Script and Story Analysis

### Instructor: Daniel T. Green

### Generating Ideas – Discovering Picasso/Outside Source

Assignment #3
Due Date
Saturday, Sept 7, 2024@10:00am EST (A very quick turn-around)
Assignment Focus
The focus of this assignment is to start thinking about what works as source material.
## Part One is called: Discovering Picasso

Based on the excerpt of the article below Finding Possible Picasso Painting at Yard Sale, bring in 2
original ideas for a TV show or film based on someone who finds (found) something unusual that has the
possibility of changing that person’s (or another person’s) life. It does not have to be a piece of art that the
person finds. Your assignment is to come up with a situation of why this film/ TV show would work. Note
character, setting, and the thrust of the plot. Also, think about how you would “talk” about it. Avoid
reality television. Avoid using AI for this assignment!

FINDING PICASSO: At a neighbor's yard sale in a Shreveport, LA., trailer park, a woman found a colorful
painting in a cheap frame. She purchased the painting for the cost of $3.00. The woman did some research
on the Internet and found that it looked surprisingly similar to a missing Picasso painting. She called the
FBI and they analyzed the artwork.
"They told me that it looks like an original," the woman told ABC News. The painting was valued at $2
million. But it wouldn't be the first time a masterpiece has been salvaged from the trash heap. It wouldn't
even be the first Picasso. An early work of the iconic Spanish artist was found tucked away in an attic in
the United Kingdom last year. It scored $200,000 at auction.
## Part Two is called: Outside Source

Based on an existing source outside of yourself, bring in 1 idea for a TV show or film. The outside sources
should be things that already exist: An article in a newspaper, a story in the news, a book, a poem, a
published song, a T-shirt slogan, maybe even a billboard or bumper sticker. These are not ideas solely
generated off the top of your head. It needs to be based on something else. Please note that these should not
have anything to do with the Picasso idea.
### Written support:

FOR PICASSO – Type up 1 short paragraph regarding each idea. The paragraph should include
## 1. Title this idea -

## 2. Character: List age, gender, profession (if any) of main character

## 3. Setting: Where does this take place?

## 4. Plot: 3-4 lines of what the plot might be (avoid reality shows).

## 5. Keep these brief and to the point. Do not write out a script. KEEP IT SHORT. 1 paragraph is

enough
:
FOR OUTSIDE SOURCE Write up 1 short paragraph (1 – 3 sentences) regarding the idea.
## 1. Title this idea

## 2. Source: Please note where the source came from. (NY Times date, Wall Street Journal, date)

a. “This is from an article that appeared in last weeks, New York Times article, September
3, 2021
b. This is based upon a billboard I saw on Penn Ave, on Sept 6, 2022
## 3. Character: List age, gender, profession (if any) of main character

## 4. Setting: Where does this take place?

## 5. Plot: what happens (avoid reality shows).

## 6. Keep these brief and to the point. Do not write out a script. KEEP IT SHORT. 1 paragraph is fine.

Please put Picasso and Outside Source on the same paper with your name and the name of the
assignment on the paper as follows: STUDENT LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, DISCOVERING
PICASSO Assignment
Avoid any reality show/unscripted ideas, which might be easier than thinking up a scripted piece of
entertainment.

Do not use AI for this assignment
Bring in 3 copies of the assignment as well as posting it on Canvas.
14