# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, Syllabus, Course, 12, 12
Revision Date, Revision Date, 3/3/2025, Canvas, the course
**Document Length**: 5807 words

---

### Syllabus for Developing as a Leader

Course #94-854/94-454 (6 units), Spring Mini 4
Tuesday 6:30-9:20 (EST) – REMOTE ONLY
David Lassman, Professor
Hamburg Hall Room 2114
Phone: 412-999-3612
e-mail: dlassman@andrew.cmu.edu
## 1. Course Description

This course introduces students to leadership via three learning frameworks: models, practice and
reflection. Using guest lectures, readings and videos, and small group discussions, we will define
leadership and provide applicable frameworks for leadership practice. Students will be able to experiment
and practice different skills and styles in a safe environment where they can receive useful feedback. To
help students pursue their own personal path of leadership development, the focus is on formulating
personal goals, models and activities that sustain this development over the course of their careers.
## 2. Course Objectives

### Learning Objective How Assessed

Apply tools for effective reflection and self-awareness Class participation and papers
Develop and analyze your leadership values and your Class participation and papers
leadership plan of action
Synthesize and appropriately incorporate the advice Class participation and papers
and ideas of others
## 3. Course Materials

All materials are listed in the ‘Class Schedule’ section of this syllabus.
## 4. Expectations

This course requires significant reading and writing. It is expected that everyone will come to class
prepared to discuss the readings, that everyone will have answered the study questions. You are
encouraged to discuss reading material before class in a study group with other members of the class.

My goal is to make this an excellent learning experience for you. If at any time you feel that the course is
not meeting your expectations, PLEASE CONTACT ME. If you would prefer, please feel free to speak
with the Associate Deans, Jackie Speedy or Andy Wasser.

Be respectful of others: arrive to class on time; do not return late from break; if you must leave class early,
please let me know beforehand.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 1 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

## 5. Evaluation/Grading

All assignments and class participation are graded on a point scale as outlined below. The maximum points
one can achieve for the entire semester is 300. Final course grades will be assigned as follows:
### Letter Grade Point Range

A+ 295-300
A 282-294.5
A- 273-281.5
B+ 264-272.5
B 252-263.5
B- 243-251.5
C+ 234-242.5
C 222-233.5
C- 213-221.5
### R - Fail Below 213

A) Class participation – 20% of course grade for a maximum of 60 points. Each student begins the
semester with 50 points. Points are added or subtracted from the 50 according to the following:
*  0-10 points are added for class participation as evaluated over the course of the semester by the
professor. Everyone is encouraged and expected to participate in class discussions and activities.

Sharing your own knowledge and experience benefits the entire class. Constructive contribution to
the class discussion and genuine listening to others is an important element of class participation.

Keep in mind that high quality participation is the goal, not high quantity of comments. In other
words, it's not how much you talk, it's what you say that is important.
*  Attendance is taken in all classes, including the first class. If you are absent from class, 10 points
may be deducted from your participation score. If you need to miss a class, please e-mail me with as
much advance notice as possible and state the reason for missing class. If it is a valid reason for
missing class, this is an ‘excused absence’ and 10 points will not be deducted. If it is not a valid
reason for missing class – for example, you slept in or were on vacation – this is an ‘unexcused
absence’ and 10 points will be deducted.
*  There is a penalty for excessive absences. If you miss two classes (including both excused and
unexcused absences), 30 points will be deducted from your final course grade. If you miss three
classes, 45 points will be deducted from your final course grade. If you miss four or more classes,
60 points will be deducted from your final course grade. Additionally, if you are more than a few
minutes late arriving to a class, 4 points will be deducted from your class participation score.

Clearly, your attendance in class is valued.

B) Self-Reflection Journal – 40% of the course grade; there are five Journal entries, each worth 24 points
maximum for a total of 120 points. A journal entry is not so much a record of what you have read, i.e. it is
not a book report. Instead, it contains what you have learned and critically reflected on. It is unique to you
and what you write is neither right nor wrong.

The recommended length for each journal entry is 800-1000 words. If your journal entry is much less than 800
words, you might not be thorough enough; if it is much more than 1000 words, you might be verbose.

HOWEVER, the recommended length is just that, a recommendation. If you really want to write 2000 words,
that is absolutely fine! After all, these are your introspections and I do not wish to create hard-and-fast, artificial
limits. Please submit all papers in Microsoft Word, double-spaced, preferably ‘Times New Roman’ font.

The Self-Reflection Journal entries are listed in the ‘Course Schedule’ section of this syllabus. Please
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 2 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

submit your entries via Canvas. Only the professor can see your personal Self-Reflection Journal entries,
i.e. other students cannot see them.

Grading rubric for Self-Reflection Journal entries
## 1. Completeness and depth of answers and reflections. The paper answers the assigned question.

## 2. The paper probes, reflects, interprets and concludes. The paper doesn’t simply restate something that

happened to you.
## 3. Refers to course reading/video materials and class discussions.

4. 1-3 points are deducted for each of the following:
*  Writing does not stay focused on its core points and/or lacks any particular point of focus.
*  Response is too short and does not include enough detail.
### *  An assertion is made but not defended nor elaborated on; if you make an assertion/decision, you

must defend it.
*  Excessive poor grammar, run on sentences, etc.
*  Missing/improper footnoting. You are required to footnote all sources, including any assigned
articles and case studies. The recommended form of footnoting is the Chicago Manual of Style.
### This website clearly describes this method:

https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/chicago_manual_17th_edition/cmos_formatting_a
nd_style_guide/general_format.html
## 5. Journal entries submitted late receive a 3-point deduction. Journal entries submitted seven or more days

late receive an additional 2-point deduction.

C) Final Paper – 40% of course grade for a maximum of 120 points maximum. This paper is a reflection
on where you are as a leader and a plan for how you will develop as a leader. The paper must contain these
four sections:
## 1. Now that you have taken this course, how do you want to perform as a leader? What will be your

values? What outcomes do you expect?
## 2. Your strengths, including what you learned from both the Reflective Best Self (RBS) exercise and

your Leadership Project – detailed instructions for both the RBS and the Leadership Project are on
the next page of this syllabus. In this section, be sure to include:
o A summary of the feedback from your Reflective Best Self (RBS) exercise. List the respondents
to the RBS – their title and how you know them is fine; for example, “My boss at XYZ
corporation” or “My team leader on a class project at my university”. The complete, detailed
responses you receive from the RBS exercise need not be included in the final paper; but if you
would like to include the complete responses, feel free to add them as an appendix, which will
NOT be counted toward the paper’s word count.
o Regarding your leadership project, include the following:
*  The target behaviors you wanted to introduce or change.
*  The leadership interventions you initially attempted and their consequences.
*  Modifications you made to your approach over time and their consequences.
*  What you learned from the project and what you might have done differently.
## 3. Your development goals – what you need to work on to perform better as a leader.

## 4. Your leadership action plan – what you will do to realize your leadership development goals. Your

plan should be both actionable and realistic; and it should be something you are excited about
carrying out. Please be specific. Describe specifically what will you do in the next few years to
practice and improve your leadership abilities.

The recommended length of the paper is 1800-2300 words. If your final paper is much less than 1800
words, you might not be thorough enough; if it is much more than 2300 words, you might be verbose.

HOWEVER, the recommended length is just that, a recommendation. If you really want to write 2700
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 3 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

words, that is absolutely fine! After all, these are your introspections and I do not wish to create hard-andfast, artificial limits. Please submit all papers in Microsoft Word. All references must be cited and footnoted.
### Grading rubric for Final Paper:

## 1. Completeness and depth of answers and reflections. The paper addresses all four issues detailed above.

## 2. The paper probes, reflects, interprets and concludes. The paper doesn’t simply restate something that

happened to you.
## 3. Refers to course reading/video materials and class discussions.

4. 5-10 points are deducted for each of the following:
*  Writing does not stay focused on its core points and/or lacks any particular point of focus.
*  Response is too short and does not include enough detail.
### *  An assertion is made but not defended nor elaborated on; if you make an assertion/decision, you

must defend it.
*  Excessive poor grammar or spelling.
*  Missing/improper footnoting. You are required to footnote all sources, including any assigned
articles and case studies. The recommended form of footnoting is the Chicago Manual of Style.
### This website clearly describes this method:

https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/chicago_manual_17th_edition/cmos_formatting_a
nd_style_guide/general_format.html
## 5. The final paper must include a list of respondents to your Reflective Best Self exercise – their title and

how you know them is fine; for example, “My boss at XYZ corporation” or “My team leader on a class
project at my university”.
## 6. Final papers submitted late receive a 10-point deduction.

******************************************************
Reflected Best Self Exercise (RBS)
Some of the strengths you have as a leader already exist. To help you get useful feedback regarding your strengths,
the RBS exercise provides a process through which you can get feedback from people who have seen you in action
with others. Consider contacting people you have known in different parts of your life – your work experience,
family, military, school, community, sports, etc. You will use the feedback you obtain to write a description of
your behavior when you are at your best in the eyes of others. This description will provide a basis for reflection
in class and will be included in your final paper. I recommend contacting five to seven people; then if some people
don't respond, you will still receive three or four good responses.
### Sample letter/e-mail to your key informants:

As part of the Leadership Development course I am taking at Heinz College, I am required to construct a
profile regarding the ways I add value and make a contribution to others. I am contacting people who know
me well. Can you please help me with this exercise? I am asking you to provide me with three stories of
when I was at my best in the way I affected other people.

I appreciate your taking time to do this for me. This will require you to think about your interactions with
me and to identify those incidents or behaviors when I was at my best in your eyes. Please be sure to provide
examples so I can understand the situation and characteristics you are describing. In your feedback to me,
please provide three examples of how I add value by completing the following statements:
*  “One of the ways that you add value and make important contributions is . . .”
*  “For example, I think of the time that . . .”
### I have included some examples below of what these stories could look like. Please use this only as a guide:

Example #1: One of the ways that you add value and make important contributions is: You get people to
work together and give all they have to a task. For example, I think of the time we were doing the Alpha
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 4 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

project. We were getting behind and stress was building. We started to close down and just focus on
meeting the deadline. You noticed that we weren't doing our best work and asked the group to rethink
our approach. You asked whether we wanted to just satisfy the requirements or do really good important
work. I remember you reminded us of what we were capable of doing. No one else in the room thought
to do this. As a result, we did meet the deadline but created something we all felt proud of, too.

Example #2: One of ways you add value and make important contributions is: Helping others focus on
global issues. For example, I think of the time we were working on the strategic plan. You introduced
information on trends in the European market. None of us had seen this information thought about any
non-US implications. You kept pushing us to think in global terms.

Example #3: One of the ways you add value and make important contributions is: Your capacity to persist in
the face of great difficulties. For example, I think of the time we had missed our deadline on the
Cronbach report. Frank quit and Tim got sick. We were really short-handed. Instead of getting
discouraged, you got more focused than I have ever seen anybody get. I think you went 48 hours without
sleep. I was amazed that you could produce such a quality report under those conditions.

Thank you very much for your help!
******************************************************
Leadership Project
Learning by doing is an important aspect of developing your leadership competencies. During the course,
you will undertake a personal leadership project in which you will intervene in a social situation to make a
change using your leadership skills. This project of your own choosing will be an intervention you undertake
to: a) improve the performance of a group; b) enhance the culture or climate of an organization, or; c)
otherwise influence the behavior and attitudes of others by using your leadership skills. You must be able to
complete – or at least make significant progress on – your project before the ‘final paper’ is due. Some
sample leadership projects are:
### *  Setting clear expectations and improving the communication among team members on a systems or

capstone project at Heinz College.
### *  Working with a group or team at your workplace to improve group dynamics and reach team targets

more effectively and efficiently.
*  Improve your living situation with roommates.
*  Work with neighbors to address and resolve a common problem.
### *  Work with an athletic team or student group/club at Carnegie Mellon to achieve better results or

achieve a common goal.
### Include these elements of your Leadership Project in the course ‘final paper’:

*  The target behaviors you wanted to introduce or change.
*  The leadership interventions you initially attempted and their consequences.
*  Modifications you made to your approach over time and their consequences.
*  What you learned from the project and what you might have done differently.

I strongly recommend keeping a journal during your leadership project to track your activities, ongoing results, and areas for improvement.
******************************************************
## 6. Written and Oral Communication Assistance –

For assistance with the written assignments and/or oral communication, please visit the Student Academic
Success Center (SASC). SASC tutors can provide instruction on a range of communication topics and can
help you improve your papers and presentations. The SASC is a free service open to all students. You can
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 5 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

make tutoring appointments, sign up for workshops, and learn about other resources on their website
at https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communication-support/index.html
## 7. Academic Statement

You are expected to attend class, be prepared for class and participate in the discussions. Written
assignments are due on or before the due date. If you must miss a class, please notify me with as much
advanced notice as possible; if you cannot talk with one of us directly, please leave a message on my voice
mail or e-mail. For any class that you miss, you are responsible for obtaining the notes and related materials
from another student.

Please let me know if you do not understand class material or requirements or if any special circumstance
prevents you from completing a class requirement on time.

You are responsible to know and adhere to all University policies on academic integrity. The Heinz School
provides a booklet on Plagiarism and Cheating and the University lists all policies on the web at
www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html; please acquaint yourself with the contents. Any academic
integrity violation will result in a score of ‘0’ points for that assignment AND will result in either a reduced
course grade or a failing course grade.
## 8. Using Artificial Intelligence

### Facts and Evidence:

*  The main purpose of being a student is to learn and become a critical thinker. AI can negatively impact
our ability to learn and critically analyze and resolve situations/problems.
*  AI can be factually incorrect, i.e. it ‘hallucinates’.
*  AI currently does not cite sources, which is unacceptable in an academic setting (plagiarism).
### Requirements and Expectations for this course:

### *  Entering the assignment question into AI and then having AI write your paper or sections of your paper

is considered an academic integrity violation.
### *  It is acceptable to use AI for grammar and writing style, such as Microsoft Word spell check and

Microsoft Word grammar check
### *  If you are concerned about how your use of AI may impact your grade and performance in the course,

please contact the professor before you use AI for an assignment.

AI and Academic Integrity: Using AI for any purposes or in any manner other than described above will be
considered an academic integrity violation, resulting in a score of ‘0’ points for that assignment
AND resulting in either a reduced course grade or a failing course grade.
## 9. Student Wellness

Diminished mental health, including significant stress, mood changes, excessive worry, or problems with
eating and/or sleeping can interfere with optimal academic performance. The source of symptoms might be
strictly related to your course work; if so, please speak with me. However, problems with relationships,
family worries, loss, or a personal struggle or crisis can also contribute to decreased academic performance.

CMU provides mental health services to support the academic success of students. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) offers free, confidential services to help you manage personal challenges. In
the event I suspect you need additional support, I will express my concerns and the reasons for them, and
remind you of campus resources (e.g., CaPS, Dean of Students, etc.) that might be helpful to you. It is not
my intention to know the details of what might be bothering you, but simply to let you know I am concerned
and that help, if needed, is available. Getting help is a smart and courageous thing to do --for yourself and
for those who care about you.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 6 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

## 10. Accommodations for Students with Disabilities

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage
you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with
you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability
and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
## 11. Recording academic classroom activities, lectures, etc.

Recordings of course sessions are provided solely for educational use by students enrolled in the course and
may not be distributed to any other person or posted on the internet without the express written permission of
the course instructor.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 7 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

# COURSE SCHEDULE

### March 11 – Class #1

Topic: Course Introduction; Define ‘Leadership’
Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Course Syllabus

2. “Developing as a Leader: The Power of Mindful Engagement” by Susan J. Ashford and D. Scott DeRue
## 3. An article on asking for advice vs. feedback at https://www.alumni.hbs.edu/stories/Pages/storybulletin.aspx?num=7284

4. 'Why Incompetent People Often Think They’re Actually the Best' at: https://www.vox.com/science-andhealth/2017/11/18/16670576/dunning-kruger-effect-video. You may watch the video and/or read the
article.
### Self-Reflection Journal Entry #1 is due prior to class:

## 1. What are your leadership strengths? Describe an example or examples that illustrate these strengths.

## 2. What are your greatest needs for development as a leader, i.e. which behaviors do you need to improve

via practice and attention, and which behaviors do you need to alter or stop? Describe an example or
examples that illustrate these development needs.
## 3. What could keep you from actively participating in the class discussions? What could cause you to NOT

share your ideas and opinions in a classroom setting?
## 4. When in your life have you been especially reflective? What was the situation and what was the result?

Why is reflection so important? What actions do you currently take that aid you in being reflective?
## 5. Provide a brief description of your ‘Leadership Project’ – refer to page 5 of this syllabus for more

information on the Leadership Project. Specifically, what will you practice with regards to leadership
and how will you measure/determine success?

Additional Ungraded Assignment: Complete the ‘Pre-Course Survey of Leadership Competencies’.
### March 18 – Class #2

Topic: Power and Influence; Emotional Intelligence; Providing Feedback/Advice Positively
Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Chapter 19 “Use Power Effectively to Influence People" by Gary Yukl; from the Handbook of Principles

of Organizational Behavior, edited by Edwin A. Locke, (pages 349-365)
2. "Emotional Intelligence & Leadership" by Er. Vipin Mittal & Dr. Ekta Sindhu
## 3. Chapter 4 “How to Deliver Negative Feedback Positively”; from Practicing Positive Leadership, by Kim

Cameron, (pages 79-98)
### Self-Reflection Journal Entry #2 is due prior to class; please respond to BOTH prompts:

## 1. Describe a successful attempt to influence you by a supervisor/manager, co-worker, or team-member and

identify the specific influence tactics used by that person. Then describe an unsuccessful attempt by the same
person or someone else in the organization to influence you, and identify the tactics used by the person.

Analyze the reasons for the success or failure of these two influence attempts. Consider the agent’s position
and personal power, the relevance of the tactics for the situation, and your initial attitudes about the
objective of the influence attempt. (This is from Chapter 19 “Use Power Effectively to Influence People" by
Gary Yukl; from the Handbook of Principles of Organizational Behavior, edited by Edwin A. Locke, page
365)
## 2. Write about an influence attempt that you need to make now or would like to make soon. Plan an

appropriate influence strategy, selecting appropriate influence tactics from “Use Power Effectively to
Influence People” and consider the best way to sequence the tactics. Also consider other approaches and
influence tactics you might employ if your initial effort is unsuccessful. In class, we will break into small
groups in order to share influence attempts and offer advice to each other. (This is from Chapter 19 “Use
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 8 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

Power Effectively to Influence People" by Gary Yukl; from the Handbook of Principles of Organizational
Behavior, edited by Edwin A. Locke, page 365)
### March 25 – Class #3

Topic: Grit; Impact Subordinates have on Leaders
Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Take the ‘grit test’ at this website: https://angeladuckworth.com/grit-scale/ Bring your results to class;

the results of the ‘grit test’ do not need to be submitted in your journal entry.
## 2. AFTER you have taken the ‘grit test’ above, read the book Grit by Angela Duckworth. If you do not

wish to the purchase Grit, the book is available electronically and in hard copy at the CMU library.
### Self-Reflection Journal Entry #3 is due prior to class:

## 1. Per Angela Duckworth, ‘grit is passion and perseverance for long-term goals.’ Describe one experience

in your life when you persevered, when you were ‘gritty’?
*  How did you feel at the time?
*  What resources did you call upon to help you cope with the situation?
*  How did you resolve the issue/situation?
*  What did lessons did you learn; what insights did you gain?
## 2. Using the ‘goal hierarchy’ framework presented in Chapter 4 (this is the section immediately following

the grit test and continues through to the end of Chapter 4), draw a goal hierarchy for yourself. Please
use the circle chart/diagram format illustrated in the book as this helps you visualize linkages and
dependencies; scan your goal chart and attach it as part of your Journal Entry. Please bring your chart to
class as well. Here are some tips to help with your goal charts:
### *  Think of your goal chart in four levels (with years to achieve in parentheses below):

1) top-level (lifetime)
2) higher mid-level (5-20 years)
3) lower mid-level (1-5 years)
4) low-level (<1 year)
*  You might have one ‘top-level’ goal for work and one top-level goal for family/friends/community.

Your top-level goals are what you work on your entire life. Your top-level career goal should be job
and organization agnostic, i.e. it should not be tied to a specific job title or organization; think beyond
a specific job or organization.
*  The ‘higher mid-level’ goals (just below the top-level goals) are major pillars of your top-level goals.

These goals typically take 5-20 years to achieve.
### *  The ‘lower mid-level’ goals lead to the higher mid-level goals and typically take 1-5 years to

achieve.
*  Some students identify lots of ‘low-level goals’, which tend to be achievable within 6-12 months.

Make sure you also include plenty of ‘higher mid-level’ and ‘lower mid-level’ goals in your goal
charts.
*  Typically, many students struggle with top-level goals. Try to ask ‘Why’ for top-level goals until the
answer is ‘just because’, as Duckworth recommends in her book. Many of you might not be able to
identify clear top-level goals; you might not yet be able to look that far out in your life. That’s OK;
just do the best you can.
### April 1 – Class #4

### Topic: Values-Based Leadership; Ethics; Instilling Hope

Guest Speaker: Bill O’Rourke. Bill held numerous executive positions at Alcoa, including CIO, Vice
President of Environment, Health and Safety, and Sustainability, and President of Alcoa Russia
Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 9 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

1. “A Framework for Thinking Ethically” at: https://www.scu.edu/ethics/ethics-resources/a-framework-forethical-decision-making/
## 2. Chapter 21 “Foster Trust through Ability, Benevolence and Integrity" by Jason A. Colquitt and Sabrina

C. Salam; from the Handbook of Principles of Organizational Behavior, edited by Edwin A. Locke
(pages 389-403)
## 3. Bill O’Rourke’s bio

### Self-Reflection Journal Entry: None

### April 8 – Class #5

### Topic: Ethical Challenges; Leadership Projects

Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Watch a video produced by Bill O'Rourke's alma mater, John Carroll University, on his experiences as

interim Executive Director at Tree of Life Synagogue:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lQ0qlD5ybhU
## 2. In class, we will discuss your ‘Leadership Projects’. Consider challenges you are having currently or

expect to have with your project. Come to class prepared to share the challenge with the class. Your
classmates and the professor will offer feedback to help you better handle this challenge. You are NOT
required to write about this in your journal entry; this is for class discussion only.

3. ‘Career, Life and Leadership Panel Bios’
## 4. OPTIONAL READING: “The Ballad of Paul O’Neill” – an excerpt from the book The Power of Habit:

Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business by Charles Duhigg.
### Self-Reflection Journal Entry #4:

There are two options for writing this Journal Entry on ethical challenges. You can write about both prompts
below OR you can write about one of the two prompts below:
Prompt 1: Reflect on one instance when you failed to rise to an ethical challenge; in other words,
consider an ethical dilemma you faced that as you look back, you wish you would have handled it
differently. What were the circumstances? What pressures did you feel? Why did you behave the way
you did? What do you wish you would have done differently?

Prompt 2: Reflect on one instance when you successfully rose to an ethical challenge; in other words,
consider an ethical dilemma you faced that you believe you handled well. What were the circumstances?

What pressures did you feel? Why did you behave the way you did? Looking back, do you think you
could have handled the situation even better; and if so, how?

Please be prepared to share the situation(s) described in your Journal Entry with one or two other students in
class. If you aren’t comfortable sharing this situation, please think of another ethical situation you can share
in class.

Additional Ungraded Assignment: Complete the ‘Career, Life and Leadership Panel Questions’
Assignment in Canvas. Please submit 1-2 questions (or more if you so choose) for each panelist. I will
compile these questions and forward them to our panelists to help facilitate our class discussion in our next
class.
### April 15 – Class #6

### Topic: Panel on Career, Life and Leadership

### Reading/Watching Assignment - None

### Self-Reflection Journal Entry #5 is due prior to class:

Consider a leader with whom – or for whom – you have worked (this could be a leader you worked with/for
at work as an employee, at work as an intern, at school as a student, etc.):
*  Describe the workplace values the leader espoused – the values can be positive or negative.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 10 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

### *  Examine how the leader embedded and transmitted these values in the workplace and how effective

they were at doing so.
*  Discuss the overall effectiveness of the workplace, i.e. did the organization embrace the values and
fully achieve its goals?
*  Describe how you felt working for this leader. One way to think about this is: what emotions did you
feel for this leader?
*  Did colleagues/co-workers feel the same way about this leader? If so, why; if not, why not?
### April 22 – Class #7

### Topic: Various Leadership Topics; Course Wrap- up

Reading/Watching Assignment – to be read prior to class
1. ‘Five Resolutions for Aspiring Leaders’ at:
http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2011/12/five_resolutions_for_aspiring.html
2. ‘8 Core Beliefs of Extraordinary Bosses’ at: http://www.inc.com/geoffrey-james/8-core-beliefs-ofextraordinary-bosses.html
3. “William Crawford WWII”
Additional Ungraded (but NOT optional) Assignment: Please complete the ‘Last class topics and panel
feedback’ assignment on Canvas. Please respond to all prompts:
## 1. Please provide your insights from the leadership panel discussion as soon as possible. I will compile

them and include them in my summary for the class.
## 2. Please provided feedback/advice on the ‘Career, Life and Leadership Panel’ discussion. What did the

panelists and I (the moderator) do well? What should the panelists and I do differently/better? Was it
OK that I asked many of the questions, or would you have preferred I let you (the students) ask the
questions? Your advice is greatly appreciated!
## 3. What leadership goals did you pursue in the course? What did you want to learn about, to become better

at?
## 4. What did you learn relative to these goals? What work remains unfinished in order for you to reach these

leadership goals?
## 5. We will have some time in our last class to revisit issues you would like to dig more deeply into, to

discuss topics from readings or guests that you would like to discuss in more detail. AND we can discuss
other leadership topics of interest we haven’t had a chance to address at all. Are there some topics you
would like to discuss in our last class? What big questions about leadership do you still have?
### April 27 – No Class

## 1. Final Paper is due by midnight.

## 2. Please complete the 'Course Content Evaluation Leadership’ form, which you received at the beginning

of the course, and submit as an assignment via Canvas. I value your feedback so please take the time to
complete this carefully.
## 3. Complete the ‘Post-Course Survey of Leadership Competencies’ and submit as an assignment via

Canvas.
***************************************************************************************
Optional Readings
### These are excellent books; and although they are not required, I highly recommend them:

1. “What We Know About Leadership” by Robert Hogan and Robert B. Kaiser. This article is in the
Review of General Psychology, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 169-180, 2005. It is available to the CMU community
at https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1037/1089-2680.9.2.169 - under the ‘Access Options’ section,
click on ‘Access through Carnegie Mellon University.’
## 2. The Business Ethics Field Guide by Aaron Miller, Bill O’Rourke and Brad Agle.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 11 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025

## 3. On Becoming a Leader by Warren Bennis. Bennis was University Professor and Distinguished

Professor of Business Administration at the University of Southern California. He was widely regarded
as a pioneer in the field of contemporary Leadership studies.
## 4. The Five Dysfunctions of a Team: A Leadership Fable by Patrick Lencioni. This book will be especially

useful on your Leadership Projects.
## 5. The Power of Habit: Why We Do What We Do in Life and Business by Charles Duhigg. Humans are

creatures of habit. Learning how habits form is essential both for creating good habits and for
eliminating bad habits.
## 6. Outliers by Malcolm Gladwell and Freakonomics by Steven Levitt and Stephen Dubner. Both books

describe and analyze societal phenomena in engaging and unique ways.

Syllabus for Course #94-854/94-454 Page 12 of 12
Revision Date: 3/3/2025