# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Syllabus, 95, 2024, students, Intermediate Database Management, 5

#, SQL, Canvas, this class
**Document Length**: 1380 words

---

# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

Course 6-Unit Course
Information
Fall, 2024
Instructor: Jeremy Smith
Email: smithj@andrew.cmu.edu / jcsmith@cmu.edu
Office hours (via Zoom): Mondays 4:30-5:30pm
### Teaching Assistants:

Name: Email: Office Hours (via Zoom):
Nikhita Beedala nbeedala@andrew.cmu.edu
Simon Isaza-Villegas msisazavi@andrew.cmu.edu
All Office Hour zoom links will be posted to Canvas ZOOM page
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/42606/external_tools/8366
Lecture Times: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 9:30 am – 10:50 am
Lecture Location: Hamburg Hall, Room 2009
Class Website: www.cmu.edu/canvas
This course is offered for MISM students who partially exempted the Database Management
course (95-703). It is expected that students enrolled in this class already have some basic
knowledge of the SQL language and database design fundamentals.

Description The ability to structure, manage, and analyze data is critical to any organization. Databases,
being the core of every information system, are essential in supporting this ability. Therefore,
knowing how to effectively use the information and learning new skills in designing database
systems is an advantage and necessity today. In addition, with the accessibility and availability
of data from multiple sources and in disparate formats, it is also important to become familiar
with methods for integrating those external data sources with internal enterprise data.

This accelerated 6-unit course will address the theory and application of relational database
technology. The course covers advanced data modeling (including entity relationships
modeling and database normalization) as well as the structured query language (selected topics).

Data integrity as well as utilizing metadata will also be addressed. In addition, the course will
cover tools, technologies and methods to aid in working with heterogeneous and external data
sets.

To provide students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures,
readings and various assignments.
95-813, Intermediate Database Management, Syllabus, 2024©
### Page 1 of 5

# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

Course Materials For each lecture, the instructor will provide notes and any class material relevant for the
lecture.
### Suggested Books (these are not required for the course):

 Casteel, J., “Oracle 12c: SQL,” Cengage Learning
 Connolly, T. and C. Begg, “Database Systems: A Practical Approach to Design,
Implementation, and Management,” 6th edition, Addison-Wesley, 2015
 Coronel, C. and S. Morris, “Database Systems: Design, Implementation, &
Management,” 12th edition, Cengage Learning, 2017
 Price, J., “Oracle Database 12c: SQL,” Mc Graw Hill, 2014
### Software:

Instructions will be provided to configure an Oracle Instant Client that will be required
during the semester.

No other components of Oracle Software will be required for this class.

Course Objectives
Objective
Understand and implement advanced data modeling techniques to enforce data integrity
within the model while designing the model around specific business processes and
constraints.

Learn advanced query methods and tools to allow for complex query results that are
required for analyzing enterprise data sets.

Understand methods and tools available for working with datasets from diverse sources
and formats both internal and external to the organization’s data.

Use current Oracle Database System to implement all of the above concepts including
data structures, extending the model with additional available related data, querying, and
analyzing the data within those sources.
95-813, Intermediate Database Management, Syllabus, 2024©
### Page 2 of 5

# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

### Evaluation Method Students’ performance in the class will be evaluated based on the following components:

### DB Design Assignments 35%

### DB Design Exam 30%

SQL Assignments 30%
In-Class Assignments 5%
100%
Grading Scale A+ 96.67% – 100 % B+ 86.67% – 89.99 % C+ 76.67% – 79.99 %
A 93.34% – 96.66 % B 83.34% – 86.66 % C 73.34% – 76.66 %
A– 90% – 93.33 % B– 80% – 83.33 % C– 70% – 73.33 %
No curve is applied to grades.

Scores below 70% equate to a failing grade (R).
95-813, Intermediate Database Management, Syllabus, 2024©
### Page 3 of 5

# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

### Course Policies & Lectures/Absences:

Expectations
Attending lectures is mandatory. Please arrive for each class a few minutes early and refrain
from using your laptops and mobile devices during class except to view lecture notes.
### Cell Phones during class:

Cell phones are not to be used during lecture. Please turn off your phone or place it in
“airplane mode.” Do not leave the cell phone on the table/desk as it becomes a distraction.
### Laptops/Tablets During Class:

Laptops/tablets may be used during lectures only to view lecture notes to follow along with
the lecture. Please plan to take notes on paper or using an electronic pen on your laptop or
tablet. No active use or typing on the keyboard is allowed during lecture.
### Assignments:

All assignments are due and must be uploaded to the Canvas website BEFORE the lecture
begins on the day specified and are eligible for up to full credit for that assignment based on
the grading rubric. Any submissions submitted after the start of the lecture may be penalized
unless permission is granted by the instructor prior to the due date. Each assignment must
be electronically submitted (not scans of handwritten work) and diagrams created using
PowerPoint, Draw.io or an equivalent tool. No collaboration in any form on individual
assignments is allowed unless specified in the assignment instructions.

All assignments are graded by class TAs and reviewed by the instructor before they are
returned to students within a week of submission. Suggested solutions to each assignment
will be provided on Canvas when the graded assignments are returned.

A Note from the Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
Heinz College: drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings
like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.
95-813, Intermediate Database Management, Syllabus, 2024©
### Page 4 of 5

# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

Academic Honesty All CMU students are expected to follow the ethical guidelines and adhere to the policies as
and Integrity
defined in your Program’s Student Handbook or in any other source describing such policies
as they apply to students at Carnegie Mellon University. These policies and guidelines are
available on the CMU web site. Please read them carefully! You will be held accountable for
any violations of these guidelines and policies.

Individual assignments must reflect individual effort. Although I expect you to attempt
solving each problem on your own, I encourage you to seek help from the class TAs if you
struggle with any assignment. Sharing your assignments with any other student in any form
(whether it is a paper document, an electronic document such like a MS Word document, or a
document in any other format) is not permitted and will be considered cheating. Any
“discussion” between students that results in a similar HW submission is also not allowed. If
you are in possession of any other person's document or file from this or any other semester,
you are in jeopardy.
### Any violations of academic integrity in this class will have the following consequences:

(a) at the minimum, no credit for assignment in question and lowering final grade by one
letter (e.g., from B to C);
(b) in more serious offenses, failing the class;
All violations of academic integrity are reported. Additional penalties may be imposed.

Use of Generative
To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course
Artificial
Intelligence (AI) yourself, without any use of generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools. Please refrain from
using AI tools to generate any content (text, video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an
assignment or classroom exercise unless otherwise stated in the assignment
instructions. Passing off any AI generated content as your own (e.g., cutting and pasting
content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation
of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in
this course, please email or talk to me.
95-813, Intermediate Database Management, Syllabus, 2024©
### Page 5 of 5