# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, students, Students, PDF, CMU, malicious code, 20%, Linux, ### P age, support
**Document Length**: 1457 words

---

# MALICIOUS CODE ANALYSIS

Carnegie Mellon University: Heinz College Spring 2025
Instructor: Jason Batchelor
Email: jxbatchelor@gmail.com
Office Hours: By appointment only
Website: http://www.cmu.edu/canvas/
# GENERAL INFORMATION

# DESCRIPTION

The ability to develop well instrumented networks, policies, and processes are directly correlated to ones
understanding of malicious code, such that it has become a requisite for any decision maker operating within a
modern enterprise. Just as necessary is the ability to effectively consume and produce actionable intelligence on
malicious code. This course aims to provide students with a deeper understanding of the various tactics,
techniques, and procedures found when analyzing malware. Students will also develop an appreciation for the
technical challenges presented by malware and how to employ strategic detections and mitigations to meet
today’s threat.
# LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Heinz College is a unique place where policy and tech come together and there is a significant gap in industry
between those capable of reversing malicious code, and those operating in a managerial capacity to effect change
with those results. The outlined course will serve as a bridge to bring these two worlds closer together and afford a
better understanding of associated challenges.

Without an understanding of malicious code, the risk it poses to an organization, and techniques used to
undermine traditional defense measures; decision makers are ill equipped to meet threats from state sponsored
and criminal elements. By taking this course, future leaders are provided a better understanding of adversary
tradecraft and how to effectively drive their people, process, and technology to meet modern threat actors.
# PREREQUISITES

There are no course prerequisites. However, students are expected to have a working knowledge of both Windows
and Linux operating systems. Students are also required to be proficient in at least one programming language.

Students will need to be able to perform basic troubleshooting exercises for their Lab environment in
Windows/Linux environments and should be able to install software via a standalone executable, software
repository, or from source code as needed. An understanding of basic command line syntax for both Windows and
Linux platforms, such as navigating directories, creating, editing, and removing files is required.

Students are expected to understand basic networking principles to set up a virtual environment between Linux
and Windows virtual machines on a virtual network.
### P age 1 | 4

Students will be required to be comfortable enough in a programing language to understand how to interpret API
documentation, perform basic file I/O operations, basic work with binary data streams, and install/integrate third
party modules.
# MATERIALS

Optional: Michael Sikorski and Andrew Honig, Practical Malware Analysis: The Hands-On Guide to Dissecting
Malicious Software, No Starch Press, 2012, ISBN: 978-1593272906
Students are expected to possess or have access to a laptop for completion of course work. The laptop must
support the ability to install virtual machines and configure networking using virtualization software such as
VMWare, Hyper-V, or VirtualBox.
# EVALUATION

# GRADING SCALE

A+ 100% - 98% B+ 89% - 88% C+ 79% - 78%
A 97% - 92% B 87% - 82% C 77% - 72%
A- 91% - 90% B- 81% - 80% C- 71% - 70%
# WEIGHT

Item Weight
Assignments 20%
Lab Exercises 40%
Project 20%
Final Exam 20%
# ASSIGNMENTS

Nearly every week there will be an individual assignment based off the lecture material for the week. Completion
of these assignments will greatly assist you on future exams and help to reinforce concepts used in the labs.
# LAB EXERCISES

There will be a series of lab exercises which will be individual efforts intended to grant students more in-depth
exposure to the lecture content. Assigned labs will be less frequent but will require more effort.
# PROJECT

The project will be a group assignment designed to encompass concepts from multiple lectures. Further details on
the project will be distributed later in the course.
# FINAL EXAM

The final exam will consist of several multiple choice, fill in the blank, and written answer questions. No one is
excused from this exam and there will be no makeup exam. Please ensure you are present.
### P age 2 | 4

# POLICIES

# LATE ASSIGNMENTS

Assignments that are late will face a 50% reduction for the first 24 hours of late time. Once this time has passed
the grade cannot earn more than 20%.

The submission timestamp produced by Canvas will be the determining factor in judging if an assignment is late.

Ensure you give yourself the requisite time needed to complete each assignment as no leniency will be provided.
# CLASSROOM ETIQUETTE

Students are expected to be silent and attentive during lecture. All class members must conduct themselves in a
professional and respectful manner both in and outside the classroom to promote an educational environment.

Mobile devices are expected to be silent during lecture and are only permitted for use between breaks. Please
bring any concerns to your course instructor or any CMU faculty member.
# ACADEMIC INTEGRITY

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards are supported and
enforced by students, including those who serve as academic integrity hearing panel members and hearing
officers. The presumptive sanction for a first offense is course failure, accompanied by the transcript notation
“Violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.” The standard sanction for a first offense by graduate students is
suspension or expulsion. Please see http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/ for any questions.

For any assignment found to be the partial or complete result of cheating or plagiarism, your grade for that
assignment will be zero. Cheating is defined as inappropriate collaboration among students on an assignment or
failure to cite others work used in the semester paper or in-class presentation. This can include copying someone
else’s work with or without alteration. When students are found to be collaborating in this way, BOTH will pay the
penalty regardless of who originated the work.
# STUDENTS WITH DISSABILITIES

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational opportunities for all
students. CMU and your instructors are committed to your success and to supporting Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general
no individual who is otherwise qualified shall be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity, solely by reason of having a disability.

If you believe that you need accommodations for a disability, please contact us ASAP, and we will work together to
ensure that you have the correct access to resources on campus to assist you through your coursework and time at
CMU.
# TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF

During your time at Carnegie Mellon do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle by eating well, exercising, avoiding
drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and
cope with stress.
### P age 3 | 4

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to
help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.
# COURSE SCHEDULE

## Week Topics Assigned Reading Labs Assignments

1 Analyst Roles and PDF: Ethics of RE Lab 1 Assigned HW 1 Assigned
### Malware Taxonomy Book: Chapter 0

### 2 Fundamentals of Book: Chapters 1, HW 1 Due

### Malicious Code Analysis 2,3 Project Assigned

HW 2 Assigned
PDF: Capture: A
Tool for Behavioral
Analysis of
Applications and
Documents
3 Data Obfuscation Book: Chapter 12 Lab 1 Due HW 2 Due
### and 13 Lab 2 Assigned HW 3 Assigned

### 4 Anti Analysis Techniques Book: Chapter 15, HW 3 Due

### 16, and 17 HW 4 Assigned

PDF: Methods for
VM Detection
PDF: The
"Ultimate" AntiDebugging
Reference
5 Economics of Malware PDF: Yara User’s Lab 2 Due HW 4 Due
### Analysis Manual Lab 3 Assigned

### PDF: The Case for

Semantics-Based
Methods in
Reverse
Engineering
### 6 Using the Whole Buffalo Book: Chapter 14

PDF: Intel Driven
Defense
### 7 Project Presentations Lab 3 Due

### Final Exam Review Project Due

8 Final Exam
Any or all of the previous information is subject to change or modification during the quarter.
### P age 4 | 4