# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: NoSQL, ###, 25%, This course, students, databases, Labs, Research Report, week, Final Exam
**Document Length**: 1235 words

---

# NoSQL Database Management
MISM Course 95-737
Carnegie Mellon University
Instructor: Derrick Spooner
E-mail: dspooner@andrew.cmu.edu
Please include both the instructor and the TAs when emailing to get the fastest response.

Web site: https://cmu.instructure.com/
Textbooks
*  Dan Sullivan. NoSQL for Mere Mortals. Addison-Wesley Professional. 2015. ISBN: 0134023218 (DS)
*  Guy Harrison. Next-Generation Databases. Apress. 2016. ISBN: 9781484213292 (GH)
Prerequisites and Requirements
Prerequisite: 95-703, Database Management
Requirement: Students MUST have a computer with the ability to install an Intel-based virtual machine. Apple M1
chips are NOT natively compatible with the course virtual machine, and you should plan to utilize an Intel-based
architecture if possible. See https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/heinz-shared/_files/pdf/laptop-program-guidelines-2021.pdf
Note: This course will include labs that involve the installation, configuration, and programming of multiple
databases. It is strongly recommended that students have some experience with programming languages (e.g., Java,
Python, HTML, SQL) and command-line interfaces (Windows Command Prompt, Unix shell).

Course Description
The widespread emergence of big data storage needs has driven the development and adoption of a new class of
non-relational databases commonly referred to as NoSQL databases. This course will explore the origins of NoSQL
databases and the characteristics that distinguish them from traditional relational database management systems.

Core concepts of NoSQL databases will be presented, followed by an exploration of how different database
technologies implement these core concepts. We will take a closer look at 1-2 databases from each of the four main
NoSQL data models (key-value, column family, document, and graph), highlighting the business needs that drive
the development and use of each database. Finally, we will present criteria that decision makers should consider
when choosing between relational and non-relational databases and techniques for selecting the NoSQL database
that best addresses specific use cases.

Learning Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Demonstrate competency in designing NoSQL Final Exam, Labs, Assignments
database management systems.

Demonstrate competency in describing how NoSQL Final Exam, Labs, Assignments, Research Report
databases differ from relational databases from a
theoretical perspective.

Demonstrate competency in selecting a particular Final Exam, Labs, Assignments
NoSQL database for specific use cases.

Schedule
(tentative, subject to change during semester)
### Date Lecture / Lab Readings / References

## Week 1 Introduction / NoSQL Database DS: Ch. 1-2

### Theory GH: Ch.1, 3

## Week 2 Key-Value Databases DS: Ch. 3-5

### Redis Lab GH: Ch. 7

## Week 3 Document Stores DS: Ch. 6-8

### MongoDB Lab GH: Ch. 4

## Week 4 Column Family Stores DS: Ch. 9-11

### Cassandra Lab GH: Ch. 6

## Week 5 Graph Databases DS: Ch. 12-14

### Neo4j Lab GH: Ch. 5

## Week 6 The Database Landscape / DS: Ch. 15

### Choosing a NoSQL Database

## Week 7 Final Exam

### Assignments / Research Report

There will be 2 assignments based on topics covered in lectures and your work with the tools in the lab sessions. In
addition, there will be a research report due on week 6. Students will select a topic germane to NoSQL databases for
independent research, submit the topic for approval, and develop a 5-8 page report on their chosen topic. A draft
version of each report will be due by week 4, and this draft version will be peer reviewed by another student in the
class. Final versions of the research reports will be due by week 6. Following is a list of due dates for each
assignment:
Item Due Date
Homework 1 – Distributed Database Management Systems Week 2@6:30 PM EST
Lab 1 – Redis Week 2@6:30 PM EST
Lab 2 – MongoDB Week 3@6:30 PM EST
First Draft of Research Report Week 4@6:30 PM EST
Lab 3 – Cassandra Week 4@6:30 PM EST
Peer Reviews of Research Reports Week 5@6:30 PM EST
Homework 2 - Aggregate Oriented Design Week 5@6:30 PM EST
Lab 4 – Neo4j Week 5@6:30 PM EST
Final Version of Research Report Week 6@6:30 PM EST
Evaluation Method
Labs: 15%
Assignments: 25%
Research Report: 25% (80% final version, 10% peer review completion, 10% first draft submission)
Final Exam: 35%
Students will only have 2 weeks after an assignment or exam is returned to question or challenge a grade. After
the two-week challenge period, the grade will not be changed. Please contact the instructor if you wish to question a
grade. You must provide justification for why the specific question(s) on an assignment should be reviewed and
updated.

Grading Scale
### 100 - 98 A+

### 97 - 92 A

### 91 - 90 A89 - 88 B+

### 87 - 82 B

### 81 - 80 B79 - 78 C+

### 77 - 72 C

### 71 - 70 CGrade Distribution

I plan on using the Heinz School guidelines in deciding on the overall grade distribution. Accordingly, the average
grade will be an A-. However, I grade on an absolute scale. If every student does well in the class, each will get an
A+ regardless of the recommended grading scale. The same holds true on the other end of the scale.

Final Exam
The final exam will cover material from the entire course. The exam will be closed-notes, closed book, and held in
person during the class meeting time of Week 7 using the Respondus LockDown Browser. Please do not schedule
anything that might conflict with the final exam. No one will be excused from this date without prior written
approval and there will be no make-up exam dates.

Late assignment policy
Homework is due at 6:30 PM EST on the assigned due date. I WILL NOT accept late homework unless the student
has made arrangements with me prior to the assignment's due date. PRIOR ARRANGEMENTS MUST BE MADE
NO LATER THAN 12 PM ON THE DUE DATE. You have unlimited attempts to re-submit updated copies of your
assignments in Canvas until the due date/time, and I will only consider the most recent, on-time submission for
grading.

Policy on cheating and plagiarism
This course follows Heinz School and Carnegie Mellon policies for student conduct, including policies that address
inappropriate student collaboration and plagiarism. Each student is responsible for handing in their own work. For
any assignment found to be the partial or complete result of cheating or plagiarism, your grade for that assignment
will be zero. Cheating is defined as inappropriate collaboration among students on an assignment. This can include
copying someone else’s work with or without alteration. When students are found to be collaborating in this way,
BOTH will pay the penalty regardless of who originated the work.

Student Wellness
Take care of yourself, and each other! Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress. All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone.

There are many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning
how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone you know
experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage
you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their
website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust
for help getting connected to the support that can help.
3