# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 6pm, Proposal, Baker, 9pm, Class, NEXT WEEK, 1 - Development, 6pm –, Oral Pitch
**Document Length**: 2304 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course Film Economics: Marketing & Distribution

Information (Feature Film Business: Studios vs. Independent Perspectives)
Course Number: 93.851 Units: 12
Class 1 Fri. 9/6 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Class 2 Fri. 9/13 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Class 3 Fri. 9/20 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Class 4 Fri. 9/27 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Class 5 Fri. 10/4 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Class 6 Wed. 10/9 6pm – 9pm
Class 7 Wed. 10/16 6pm – 9pm
Class 8 Wed. 10/23 6pm – 9pm
Class 9 Wed. 10/30 6pm – 9pm
Class 10 Wed. 11/6 6pm – 9pm
Class 11 Wed. 11/13 6pm – 9pm
Class 12 Wed. 11/20 6pm – 9pm
Instructor: Jonathan Baker, jtbaker@andrew.cmu.edu; 310-614-7734 cell
TA: Leah Silberman, lsilberm@andrew.cmu.edu; 847-513-2883 cell
Description This course will provide an overview of the feature film industry, from the filmmaking process to the
marketing and distribution machine. Although it covers financing, pre-production, production, and postproduction, it is not a technical production class for filmmakers. Rather, it is a business class in how to
manage feature film product as a studio executive or independent producer.

Course Materials Provided Lecture Presentations should be reviewed before lectures.
(Required Text)
Evaluation
Focus of grading Basis of grading Percent of grade
Method
Constructive participation and
Class participation 20%
contribution to class discussion
Attendance and/or tardiness
Attitude
Team Project peer evaluation
Assignments Adhere to guidelines 30%
Turned in by deadline
Quality of work
Final Proposal 20%
Oral pitch 25%
Greenlight exercise 5%
Bonus points are offered to films green-lit at the end of class.

### Final Project Students are required to pick either:

A. an original concept for a new film to develop, or
B. an existing intellectual property with available film rights.

Then play the role of an independent producer throughout the course.

The final will consist of submitting a proposal that outlines the film and a pitch meeting with a prospective
financier. The expectations of this project will be introduced in class, and detailed elements of the project
built throughout the course as class assignments.

Of note, option A will be subject to more scrutiny. As these concepts are “original” they have not been
vetted by the marketplace, such as an existing IP.

Final pitches are in the form of a mock meeting with potential investors (your instructor) for your film.

They are strictly timed in four-minute intervals, performed in front of the class. The proposal for your film
will be handed in at the end of that pitch.

NOTE ON PITCHING – The mock meeting with the investor is far and away the most revealing of
conversations. The depth and mastery of your knowledge will be tested and challenged, from industry
terms, market knowledge, your film’s talent strategy, finance model waterfall, production strategy, etc.

The best way to prepare is practice this process with other students, and in office hours. Start practicing
as soon as possible.
### Class Participation Grading for Class Participation

### Rubric A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly and Attends class Attends class Attends class
always contributes to the regularly and regularly but regularly but
and discussion by raising thoughtful sometimes rarely contributes never contributes
questions, analyzing relevant contributes to to the discussion in to the discussion
Quality
issues, building on others’ ideas, the discussion the aforementioned in the
synthesizing across readings and in the ways. aforementioned
discussions, expanding the class’ aforementioned ways.
perspective, and appropriately ways.
challenging assumptions and
perspectives.

Learning/Course
### Objectives Learning Objective How Assessed

Learn the terminology of filmmaking development, Oral Pitch, Proposal, Class
finance, production, marketing, and distribution Discussion, Assignments
Recognize how projects are developed from concept to Oral Pitch, Proposal, Class
distribution Discussion
Explore the fundamental connections between the Proposal, Class discussion,
business and the creative process Assignments
Gain an understanding of how the studios and production Class discussion, Oral Pitch,
companies relate on business deals in a talent verses Proposal
money power balance
Understand the various teams within a studio’s Class discussion, Assignments
marketing department and their primary roles and
responsibilities, and how their involvement impacts a
film’s financial success
Develop your own creative concept into an investment Assignments, Oral Pitch,
proposal (final project) explaining why it is a marketable Proposal
film that is worthy of investment dollars.

Grading Scale A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
Course/Topical
Outline: Class 1 – Fri 9/6 2:30pm – 5:30pm
### Film – A Macro Perspective

### Topic Hour 1: Film in a Nutshell – Part 1

### Hour 2: Film in a Nutshell – Part 2

### Hour 3: Introduce Final Project

Deliverable Review “From Concept to Coin” & “Who is this Professor” Presentations
Assignment Brainstorm project ideas – be able to specify a source, the genre, and the
concept
Review “Film History” Presentation
Class 2 – Fri 9/13 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Film History
### Topic Hour 1: History - Part 1

### Hour 2: History - Part 2

Hour 3: Intro to Comps & Discussion – hear a few student ideas for the final
project
Deliverable Have identified two I.P. for the final project for class feedback
Assignment Review “Development 101” Presentations; continue brainstorming project
ideas
Class 3 – Fri 9/20 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Development 101
Topic Hour 1: Business overview - the option agreement
Hour 2: Creative overview: log-line lesson, structure, concept
Hour 3: Discussion – hear a few student ideas for the final project
Deliverable
Assignment Narrow your options to just two ideas for the vote. Prepare your loglines.

Class 4 – Fri 9/27 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Developing Your Project
Topic Hours 1-3: Discussion – vote on ideas for final project; introduce case studies
– Crown Heights, Sylvie’s Love, The Banker, Underworld, Silent Hill, Big
Fish, Spider Man
Deliverable Present two ideas by sharing your loglines.
### Assignment TO BE TURNED IN NEXT WEEK:

Project Proposal Part 1 - Development: list a) the intellectual property
source, b) log-line, c) three paragraph plot summary (first, second and third
acts), d) target Above-The-Line attachments (3-4 options for each; director,
writer and key cast), e) list of comps

Class 5 – Fri 10/4 2:30pm – 5:30pm
Development Financing
Topic Hour 1: Intro to the “Waterfall”
Hour 2: Development financing deal structure & language
Hour 3: Discuss projects and identify potential development “ask”
### Deliverable TURN IN:

Project Proposal Part 1 - Development: Logline & Three Act Structure,
Above-the-line list, Comps List
Assignment Draft Project Proposal - Part 2.a: Development financing deal language
### Revise List of Comps

Class 6 – Wed. 10/9 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Production Financing
Topic Hour 1: Return and discuss Proposal Part 1 - Development
Hour 2: Production Financing - Indie vs. Negative-pick-up vs. Studio Set-up
Hour 3: Discuss projects and potential production financing pathways
### Deliverable TURN IN:

## Part 2.a - Development financing deal language

(Add it to Part 1 – Development)
### Revise List of Comps

### Assignment TO BE TURNED IN NEXT WEEK:

## Part 2.b Production financing deal language

Class 7 – Wed. 10/16 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Models
Topic Hour 1: Define budget ranges & use of comps
Hour 2: Define marketing budget ranges
Hour 3: Discuss projects considering production models with P&A
### Deliverable TURN IN:

Proposal with Parts 1 & 2a.b.

Assignment Review “Physical Production” Presentations
Research List of Comps: (budget, genre, etc.)
### TO BE TURNED IN NEXT WEEK:

## Part 3 - Add Business model/budget: Studio set-up, negative pick-up,

independent
Class 8 – Wed. 10/23 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Physical Production
Topic Hour 1: Discuss Part 2 feedback
Hour 2: Overview of physical production
Hour 3: Discuss projects’ physical considerations
### Deliverable TURN IN:

Proposal with Parts 1, 2, & 3: Business model, budget, comps list
Assignment Research comps and “best-guess” their waterfall as far as you can
Class 9 – Wed. 10/30 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Marketing
Topic Hour 1: Discuss Part 3 and comps water-fall assumptions
Hour 2: Creative marketing overview, research
Hour 3: Discuss project marketing considerations
Deliverable
### Assignment TO BE TURNED IN NEXT WEEK:

## Part 4.a – Comps Research, Waterfall Assumptions Chart &

Positioning Statement

Class 10 – Wed. 11/6 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Distribution
Topic Hour 1: Review Part 4 - Comps research chart
Hour 2: Water-fall projections lesson
Hour 3: Discuss project pitch
### Deliverable TURN IN:

Proposal with Part 4.a – Comps Research, Waterfall Assumptions Chart,
Positioning Statement
### Assignment TO BE TURNED IN NEXT WEEK:

## Part 4.b – Project Waterfall Projections Chart

### Prepare for Oral Pitch

Class 11 – Wed. 11/13 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Oral pitches
### Topic Hour 1: Review Part 4

Exercise Hour 2 & 3: Four-minute oral pitches are in the form of a mock meeting with
potential investor (Baker) for your film performed in front of the class. The
entire class must pay close attention to all pitches as they will be discussing
them later.

Deliverable Oral Pitch
### TURN IN:

Complete Proposal by adding Part 4.b – Project Water-fall Projections
Chart
Assignment Greenlight exercise information
Class 12 – Wed. 11/20 6:00pm – 9:00pm
Picture Picking
Exercise Students play various executive roles within a mock mini-major company
and buy projects for distribution. Films that are greenlit will receive bonus
points.

Deliverable
Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.
cheating notice Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take‐home as well as in class examinations. The punishment
for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

### *  Plagiarism (explained below)

### *  Submission of work that is not the student’s own

### *  Submission or use of falsified data

### *  Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment

### *  Use of a stand‐in for an exam

### *  Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination

### *  Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an

assignment or exam
*  Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by
an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
### *  Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes.

The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from

the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore
equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that
assignment. The assignment in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending
student’s assignments included in grade calculations; thepoints for that essay zero (0) will be factored into
the grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating
student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and plagiarism will
be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be imposed, up to and
including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and outside
the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized collaboration) is
obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade
for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing
grade for the course.

Course Policies & Students who must miss class are required to get prior approval from Baker for material and lessons
Expectations missed. Students will have an option to make up for their missed participation points by completing an
additional essay or project. Such essay/project(s) will be handed in by the last lecture. Unexcused absences
will not be allowed to make up participation points.

Tardiness will result in a lowered participation grade for that class.

Baker holds office hours one-on-one by appointment. Waiting until the end of the semester to get help is
not advisable.

Creative disclaimer: this is not a film theory nor a creative writing course. Students often present
wonderful heartfelt stories that can be deeply personal and yet not survive the class marketplace. The very
purpose of the exercise is to lessen the impression that such an outcome is a personal judgement against the
student and their taste. Please do not take anything personally.

Artificial In this class, you are welcome to use generative AI programs such as ChatGPT or DALL-E.

Intelligence Policy: Suggested uses include:
⬡ Brainstorm new ideas
⬡ Develop example outlines or approaches to your work
⬡ Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem
### You may not use AI to:

⬡ Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without quotations
and a citation
⬡ Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
⬡ Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself
⬡ Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following provided
guidance.
⬡ Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really it is not
### If you use AI:

⬡ You must acknowledge the use of AI tools within your work.
⬡ You should recognize that large language models often provide incorrect information, fake citations,
contradictory statements or incorporate plagiarized materials