# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 10 a.m., 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m., 1:00 p.m., Saturday, Plagiarism, plagiarism, an assignment, AI, Production
**Document Length**: 1395 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

Course Production Management
Information Course Number: 93.852 Credit Units: 6 Fall 2024
Saturday 9/7, 9/14, 9/21, 9/28, 10/5, 10/12 at 10:00 AM – 1:00 PM
### Instructors:

Ed Lammi (Ed_Lammi@spe.sony.com)
John Harrison (beanboy@earthlink.net)
Description This class examines the nuts and bolts of Film and Television production, specifically from the Studio,
Network, and Line Production perspective.

The syllabus follows the common practices and protocols of the Industry from Pre-Production, through
Production and Post-Production, including discussion of the tangential marketing and distribution
business sectors as they relate to Production Management.

In addition to lecture and discussion format, the class will include participation by guest speakers to
cover specific areas of domain expertise.

Finally, the course will cover some of the best practices and personal development guidelines that relate
to the unique business culture of entertainment, including some historical perspective.

Course Materials Sample TV budget to be distributed in class one
(Required Text)
### CREEPSHOW TV SERIES: Episode Teleplay, Production Schedule,

### One Liner, Day Out of Days, Call Sheet

Evaluation Grading will be split between in-class participation and assignments.

Method
NOTE: Late assignments will result in a reduction of 1 full grade (e.g. A to B) for that assignment.

Exceptions will be made for extenuating circumstances beyond the student’s control, but only with
reasonable documentation and appropriate notice to at least one of the instructors.

Take-home Budget Quiz 50% Due Saturday, November 4 at 9:00pm
Final Essay 50% Due Saturday, November 4 at 9:00pm
Assignments Assignments are designed to deepen the student’s experiential understanding of the concepts, and
business culture practices covered in the course. The course will feature two major assignments.
### Assignment #1 – Take Home Exam

- Due two weeks after final class (Saturday, October 26th).
- This assignment will be worth 50% of your grade.
### Assignment #2 –– Production Management Essay

- Due two weeks after final class (Saturday, October 26th).
- 600 words maximum (No more than 2 pages, 12 point, New York or Times font).
- This assignment will be worth 50% of your grade.
- Details of the assignment will be given in class.

Learning/Course Skills and knowledge you want students to gain and how they will be assessed
Objectives*
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Understand the roles of the studio/network
executive, producer (creative, line, Class discussion and Take-Home Exam
“executive”), department heads, technicians,
artists and other crafts people in production
positions, and how these positions contribute
to the nuts-and-bolts production process;
Recognize the creative and business decision
processes made during all production phases, Class discussion and Production Management
and how those decisions can support or Essay/Final
detract from a film. TV show or program’s
success;
Develop awareness of the common practices
and various influences that shape day-to-day Class discussion and Take-Home Exam
production decisions and transactions within
the Industry.

Identify the corporate structure of the Studio
and Network system, and how it has evolved in Production Management Essay/Final
relationship to the overall global marketplace
for entertainment.

Grading Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.
cheating notice Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations.The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take‐home as well as in- class examinations.

The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below);

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data;

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

## 5. Use of a stand‐in for an exam;

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination;

## 7. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignment or

exam;
8.Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by an instructo
r for it to be considered authorized;
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes. The
source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from the work
of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore equally
subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that
assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending
student’s assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0) will be factored
into the grade. Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade.

A cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and
plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be.
imposed, up to and including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and outside
the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized collaboration) is
obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade
for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing
grade for the course.

Artificial There will be a no AI in this class. Please do not record any of the class lectures or guest speakers.

Intelligence Policy
To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself,
without any use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate
any content (text, video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off
any AI generated content as your own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or
paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a violation of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any
questions about using generative AI in this course, please email or talk to your professors.

MEIM PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT CLASS Fall 2023
WEEKLY SCHEDULE – (subject to change)
Saturday, September 7 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 1
### Course Overview / Introduction Syllabus > Ed / John

### o Student / Instructor Introduction

o Introductory discussion of Business Affairs
o Discussion of development process to production
o How is a series sold?
### o Pilot vs Series Production > John

### o Scheduling / Budgeting > Ed/John

### o Location & Financial Consideration > Ed / John

o Pilot review process: Studios, Nets, Up Fronts etc. > Ed/John
o Once ordered to series production – what’s next? > John
o Hand out sample budget
Saturday, September 14 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 2
### Series Origination & Development > Ed / John

o Discuss deals/ guilds / money ranges
o Connect schedule to budget
o Talk about tax credits
o A sale leading to a Pilot or Season Order (The difference)
o The development process from script to pre-pro.
### o Story Table – Series Development > John

### o Key Team in Writers Room

Saturday, September 21 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 3
### Production: John / Ed

o Day in the life of a Director
Prep/Casting/Crew/Revisions
o Key production documents discussion. Script, schedules, Call Sheets etc.

Saturday, September 28 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 4
Budget walk through Above the Line / Below the Line > Ed
### o DGA, WGA, SAG

o IA
o Teamsters
### o Staffing / Crewing

o Departments
Saturday, October 5 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 5
Continue budget walk-thru > Ed
Guest Speaker: Max Aronson (Apple TV Exec)
Saturday, October 12 at 10 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.

Class 6
### Post Production: John / Ed

o All things Post
### o WRAP UP: Evaluations/Final Multiple Choice and Essay

5