# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, October, the music industry, Class, Friday, 10:00am, Plagiarism, plagiarism, publishers
**Document Length**: 1302 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course MUSIC MONETIZATION & SONG ROYALTIES

Information Course Number 93.864 Section L2 Fall 2024
Instructor: Olivia Barton olivia.j.barton@gmail.com
Class 1 – Friday, October 11 10:00am – 1:00pm (Note: This first class is on zoom)
Class 2 – Friday, October 18 2:30pm - 5:30pm
Class 3 – Saturday, October 19 10:00am – 1:00pm
Description A multitude of contradictions and complications exist within the music industry. According
to the Recording Industry Association of America, music revenues in 2016 were the highest
they’ve been in over eight years with the largest year-over-year percentage increase in over 18
years. However, these numbers do not reflect the tumultuous waters in which those connected
to the music industry find themselves today. While streaming services have increased
accessibility, the issues of piracy and artist control are of grave concern.

This course will examine how the record labels and publishers are responding to the changing
economy of the music industry. Discussions will address the big players in the music industry
(Sony Music, Universal Music, Warner Music Group, Sony Publishing, & UMPG) as well as
indie record labels’ business strategy, how legal aspects of the music industry effect artists,
publishers, and consumers (digital rights management, etc.), as well as the ever-increasing
reliance on streaming and the technical companies providing music services. Topics to be
examined include copyright law, label and publishing agreements with artists, and backend
monetization of assets
### Learning/Course By the end of the course, students should be able to:

### Objectives* Learning Objective How Assessed

### *  Understand the important legal issues related to Class Discussion

creating, recording, and performing commercial
music
### *  Articulate the various aspects of track royalties for In class project

labels and publishers including sync licensing and Written final exam
digital streaming
### *  Recognize the various aspects of music publishing, Class discussion

record label, recording, and artist agreements Written final exam
In class project
### *  Describe how copyright law applies to the Class discussion

commercial music industry regarding various In class project
Union obligations
### *  Identify the major technical advancements in the Class discussion

music industry and how it is affecting both artists
and consumers

Guest Speakers There will be a few guest speakers, but due to their schedules, we may not know until a day or
two before class. I’ll email you as appropriate.

Absences/Tardy: Attendance is mandatory and will be reflected in the class participation portion of your grade.

If you know you are going to be late or absent, please contact me prior to class via email
(above). Each unexcused absence, unexcused lateness or unexcused early exit from class will
result in a one-third step down in grade (e.g., A- to B+).

Course Materials There will be no formal text but we will examine some case studies. We will take an inside
(Required Text) look at some of the campaigns, releases, and strategies that were both successful and massive
failures – to be provided by students and Olivia via email before each class
Suggested Suggested readings will be emailed prior to each class
### Reading:

Evaluation*
## Method Class Participation 10%

Homework 10%
In-class Project 40%
In-class Final 40%
### Class Grading for Class Participation

Participation As participation is a major factor in the grading of this class, I’m including a rubric for how I
Rubric will be grading. Again, if you read the assigned articles and contribute in class you should be
fine.
### A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class Attends class Attends class Attends class
regularly and always regularly and regularly but regularly but
and contributes to the sometimes rarely never
discussion by raising contributes to contributes to contributes to
Quality thoughtful questions, the discussion in the discussion the discussion
analyzing relevant the in the in the
issues, building on aforementioned aforementioned aforemention
others’ ideas, ways. ways. ed ways.
synthesizing across
readings and
discussions,
expanding the class’
perspective, and
appropriately
challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
Course/Topical Class 1 – Friday, October 11 10:00am – 1:00pm
Outline
Topic Landscape of the Music Industry and the Backend of a Song
Deliverable Pick one industry related article and be prepared to discuss in class.

In class discussion about the major players in the music industry and their
effect on the music industry economy
Class 2 - Friday, October 18 2:30pm - 5:30pm
Topic Backend of a Song cont’d and the monetization of a song via streaming, syncing , etc.

Deliverable Pick one industry related article and be prepared to discuss in class.

In class assignment
Class 3 – Saturday, October 19 10:00am – 1:00pm
### Topic Union Obligations and Copyright Law

Required
Readings
Deliverable Pick one industry related article and be prepared to discuss in class.

Final Presentation / In class project
Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious
Cheating Notice* matters. Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the
most serious violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a
required paper or as cheating on an examination, including take-home as well as in-class
examinations. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM
Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below);

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data;

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

## 5. Use of a stand‐in for an exam;

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an

examination;
## 7. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an

assignment or exam;
## 8. Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted

by an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or
footnotes. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an
idea derived from the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another
person’s work and is therefore equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any
other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0
points) for that assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded
from the offending student’s assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that
essay zero (0) will be factored into the grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A
cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and
plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may
be imposed, up to and including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside
and outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e., plagiarism and
unauthorized collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The
usual penalty for violations is a failing grade for the particular assignment in question;
however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing grade for the course.

Artificial Any use of generative AI for any graded component of this course is explicitly prohibited.

Intelligence Using ChatGPT or other generative AI to generate any course content will be considered an
Policy: academic integrity violation.
4