# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: 1:10 PM, Mgt, ###, 90XXX, Pub Pol, the course, Pub Pol & Mgt, Sch, 90719-A, Public Policy
**Document Length**: 5712 words

---

# 10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
# 90719-A

Carnegie Mellon University
Engineering and Public Policy / Social and Decision Sciences / Heinz College
19-451/2 EPP Projects I/II and 88-452 Policy Analysis Senior Project
Fall 2024
12 Units
v1.0
### The Software Defined Automobile

Time and Location
Tu/Th 3:30 – 5:20
### Room: Posner Hall 146

### Faculty:

Professor Marvin Sirbu: sirbu@cmu.edu (mailto:sirbu@cmu.edu) 5119 Wean Hall
Office Hours Wedesday 2-3pm or by appointment
### Project Manager:

Sabrina Curtis securtis@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:securtis@andrew.cmu.edu)
Office Hours by appointment
Course Description
In each project course, students work in multidisciplinary teams (engineers, computer scientists,
humanities and social scientists, and public policy and management specialists) on a cutting-edge
project topic with very little in the way of prior analyses or solutions. Project faculty attempt to choose
topics with both technical and social dimensions, requiring multi- dimensional analysis. You are given
a general goal and are expected to discover existing knowledge on the topic, to research existing
policies relevant to the topic, and analyze alternatives that make society better off. Using this
background research, and your technical and social analysis knowledge as appropriate, you will need
to create new knowledge on the subject. This knowledge is communicated to an external Review
Board, selected from experts and constituencies of importance to the issue. You will give interim
reports during the semester, after which the Review Board may make suggestions about the direction
and scope of the work. A final oral report will be presented to the Board along with a written report at
the end of the semester.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 1/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Course Objectives
### By the end of the course, you should gain skills in the following areas:

Decomposing, structuring, and formulating solutions to unstructured, complex, real- world
problems.

Interdisciplinary problem solving: Data collection, analysis, and synthesis, formulation and
evaluation of policy recommendations.

Developing professional oral and written communication skills through participation in oral
presentations, and preparation of the final written project document.

Developing the ability to function on multidisciplinary teams, including handling group dynamics,
goal selection, distribution of labor and conflict resolution.

Assessing what can be done and delivering a product on time, including insuring that steady
progress is made, setting milestones and deadlines, meeting deadlines, and synchronizing work
with others inside and outside the project.

These course objectives are independent of the content and topic, or what specific activities and
responsibilities a particular student takes on.
### For Students in the EPP Additional Major:

Students in the EPP additional major must take this course twice, in different semesters. During the
first experience in the course, students are learning how to use their skills from prior EPP courses in
solving complex, unstructured problems and developing skills for effective project completion. The
second experience in the course serves as the student’s capstone design course. In this second
experience, students apply their skills and knowledge from the first experience, demonstrating project
framing, decomposition, and developing analyses. Students in this second course are expected to be
course leaders, assisting students taking the course for the first time in navigating project
communications and tasks. In any project, the students are expected to 1) incorporate appropriate
engineering standards and multiple constraints, and 2) use the knowledge and skills acquired in
earlier course work.
### The course helps students achieve the following ABET Student Outcomes:

an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of
engineering, science, and mathematics
an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with
consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social,
environmental, and economic factors
an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 2/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make
informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic,
environmental, and societal contexts
an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a
collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and
use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.

Project Description
The Software-Defined Automobile
The modern automobile is increasingly a software-based distributed computer system on wheels.

The average modern car contains 300-1000 semiconductor chips; newer xEVs can have up to 3,000!
[1] By 2028, the average car will have $1400 worth of semiconductors in it.[2] In 2021 alone,
General Motors planned to hire 3000 software developers.[3] Already 14 years ago BMW estimated
that “up to 40% of a vehicle’s development costs are determined by electronics and software.”[4]
And vehicles are increasingly networked to the outside world. GM began it’s On-Star service in 1997
to provide everything from remote vehicle unlocking to automatic crash response, and access to
emergency roadside assistance.[5] Similar services are now available from virtually every major
vehicle manufacturer. Tesla regularly downloads software updates to its vehicles that change the
vehicle’s behavior or performance.

The transition of automobiles from being entirely mechanical devices, to software-based mobile
computing systems, has enabled a myriad of new capabilities, but also raises numerous policy
issues:
We know how often our personal computers and smartphones are afflicted by software bugs and
malware. How safe are software-based automobiles? We recently saw the economic disruption
when a bad software update from CrowdStrike bricked PCs running Microsoft Windows OS all
around the world.[6] Could a bad software update someday brick millions of automobiles?

We have become used to smartphones and PCs that are no longer useful after 5-10 years
because software updates are no longer available from the vendor. The average age of cars on
the road in the U.S. is 14 years,[7] with many lasting two decades or more. Will today’s $50,000,
software-dominated vehicles become obsolete in 5-10 years like smartphones?[8]
To perform their functions, computerized automobiles collect enormous amounts of data which
are transmitted to the vehicle manufacturer: everything from our driving style, to where we go, to
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 3/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
what is seen along the route. Who owns this data?[9] Should consumers have control over how
this data is used? Is it safe from hackers?[10]
As automobiles become more intelligent, there are opportunities to use this intelligence to
increase driving safety: collectively these are referred to as Advanced Driver Assistance Systems
(ADAS). These include Advanced Emergency Braking (AEB) that uses sensors to prevent or
mitigate collisions; Emergency Lane Keeping Systems (ELKS) that provide warning to the driver
and correct the trajectory when the driver is unintentionally crossing painted lane markings;
Driver Drowsing and Attention Warning (DDAW) systems that monitors driver alertness using a
driver-facing camera and alerts the driver if drowsiness or inattention are detected; and Intelligent
Speed Assistance (ISA) that alerts drivers when they exceed the speed limit.[11] The European
Union has since 2022 mandated that many of these capabilities be included in all new vehicles
sold in the EU.[12] The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) recently
adopted a final rule in the U.S. to mandate AEB on light vehicles sold in the U.S,[13] and an
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking regarding DDAW[14] which they are required to regulate
under the 2021 Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

The goal in this project is to look broadly at the implications of the increasing dominance of software
in motor vehicles and examine selected implications in more detail.

The nominal “client” for this project is a Review Board whose members will include experts from both
on and off campus. We have reached out to several individuals from auto manufacturers and the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration among others
### Format and Organization of the Course

You can think of your class as a consulting firm that received a problem from a client who has
authorized the study and participates via the Review Board to assure that quality work is delivered on
time. The Project Manager(s) (drawn from EPP Ph.D. students) is responsible for helping you
organize the work tasks, lead the group, and arrange logistics and administration for the project. Your
group forms the front-line professionals who must take responsibility for the day-to-day work tasks,
including research, analysis, communicating with one another, preparing deliverables, and so on.

The class meets as a whole for two hours, twice a week. During class time, we will hear report
updates from each group on progress, discuss overall organization of the work, perhaps have a
lecture/discussion on a general topic (e.g., documentation of resources), prepare for the presentation
of oral and written work, and so on. We do not anticipate that a significant amount of “work” on the
project will get done during these class sessions. Formal class time is for communicating, planning,
and organizing. The majority of the work will be done outside of formal class time. The Project
Manager and faculty are available outside of class time to assist you. Students and groups should
plan on at least 8 hours of work time per week outside of formal class time.

Faculty Responsibilities
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 4/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
The faculty member is responsible for establishing the scope of the course, guiding the Project
Manager(s) and students in structuring the research and analysis, and providing expertise in their
respective areas. Faculty will work with the Project Manger(s) to assess student learning and
contribution, and will give students feedback on their progress. Faculty will also assist students in
navigating work in an interdisciplinary setting.

Project Manager Responsibilities
The Project Manager has two roles. First, the manager acts much like the faculty and shares the
same responsibilities. Second, the manager is in charge of the administrative and logistical
responsibilities for the project, including managing the Canvas site, interfacing with administrative
staff for project needs (e.g., presentation rooms, materials), and assisting with the preparation of the
final document and presentations.

Your Responsibilities
This course is a proactive learning experience. You should not wait for assignments to be given to
you. Rather, you should actively work to define and accomplish your own (or your group’s) tasks. It is
your responsibility to identify questions worth answering, create a research plan to address those
questions, and assure that the results of your efforts are integrated into the class product though
effective communication with group members, managers, and faculty. By the end of the semester,
you should have one area of substantive responsibility (where you are the expert, have completed
some or all of the analysis, and have created the corresponding section of the final document and
presentation), one area of functional responsibility (where you have done a specific organizational
task to get the project to completion), and contributed overall to the collaborative project process and
product.
### More specifically, your responsibilities include:

Attending class.

Completing a weekly work log.

Taking various roles in your group’s weekly reports.

Being responsible for one additional activity beyond the regular work of the project.

Doing your fair share of the work on time.

Being a good group member, and good citizen in the class.

Assessment and Grading
You are graded on your individual contribution to the project, your contribution to the functioning of
your working group, and ultimately on the outcome of the project as a whole. The faculty and Project
Manager(s) will use materials submitted throughout the course, their interactions with you, and your
peer evaluations and self-reports as the basis for mid-term and final grades.

Several assignments are required, but other demonstrations of work are also considered as
described below. We include a percentage breakdown simply to note the general importance of each.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 5/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
We reserve the right to shift weighting to reflect overall contribution (for example, you may have great
insights for your group’s efforts, but fail to accomplish the needed tasks in a timely manner, or a weak
group may all give rave peer evaluations to each other, but not have contributed much to the final
product).
### In general, grading will be based on:

A. Final work product: paper and presentations (15%).

B. Faculty and Project Manager’s review of your work effort and contribution (20%).

C. Weekly work log completed on time with quality content (15%).

D. Regular progress reports completed on time with quality content (20%).

E. Functional activity contribution (15%).

F. Self and peer evaluations (10%).

G. Homework (5%).
### Here is some more information about each of these criteria:

A. Final work product: paper and presentations (15%):
We will consider the final report and presentation, and whether the initial goal was met, the
cohesiveness of the work, and how professionally the material was delivered. The Review Board
response to the final presentation and their comments on the paper are incorporated here.
### B. Faculty/PM review of work effort and work contribution (20%):

Similar to a performance review in a job, are you someone we would want to keep at our firm,
give additional responsibilities to, and reward you with a bonus, or would we rather fire you from
the firm? We will use the weekly work logs, group reports, peer evaluations, and homework as
critical pieces of information in this decision. We will also use our interactions with you---how
receptive are you to comments, how self-motivated are you in taking on tasks, do you complete
your work on time, what level of task(s) have you taken responsibility for?
### C. Weekly work log completed on time with quality content (15%):

A project course requires each member to work individually, in subgroups, and as part of the
overall group. For your individual accountability, you will be required to keep a running weekly
work log that documents your accomplishments over the semester. We will use the Journal
function on the Canvas site to administer these work logs. An entry is due EVERY WEEK,
entered no later than noon each Friday covering your work during the prior week. The faculty
and Project Manager review the work logs and will respond to any issues or concerns. Given the
nature of the course, it would be very surprising to have a log entry along the lines of “Didn’t work
on project this week.” This course is a marathon, not a sprint, and consistent effort is needed if
you are to succeed.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 6/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
The Weekly Work Log entries should be brief, specific, and informative. The format is based on the
three questions used in daily Scrum meetings: 1) What did you do this week?, 2) What will you do
next week?, and 3) What impediments are hampering your work?
### Here is a sample entry:

What did you do this week? Created a spreadsheet that included data from 5 databases
concerning the wind installations in PA. The data was from X, Y, Z, A, and B. The sheet was
uploaded to the discussion board on [date], and sent to all members of the data group and the
project manager for their review. Note taker for weekly group report.

What will you do next week? Need to deal with the missing data from the data bases and begin
to collect data on potential locations for new wind farms.

What impediments are hampering your work? Workload in my group seems very uneven, with
only a couple of members actively working. Also, data group has been slow to respond on
queries about needed data formats.

Please note that we need honest answers to the last question. Only the faculty and Project
Manager(s) see your work log, so you should include any internal group issues and be candid about
any course, group, or personal issues related to the project and accomplishing your objectives. We
place a high value on substantive and honest log entries that align with what we are seeing in the
other logs, the discussion boards, and the work products we observe.

Working on a major project with a large group of people can be difficult at times. The longer problems
persist the harder they are to correct and the larger the impact they have on the overall quality of the
final work product. Thus, it is vital for us to know about any issues as early as possible so that we can
work to correct them in a sensible (and non-punitive) way.
### D. Regular progress reports completed on time with quality content (20%):

We will often have subgroups present a brief (six minutes maximum) report about their progress
to date and their plans for the next steps. The exact timing of these reports will be determined as
the course progresses. Your subgroup will present its work in an appropriate presentation format
to be determined. An important skill here is to present the needed information given the very
limited amount of time (under six minutes), so make sure your group is carefully prepared.
### All group members should rotate through the key roles for these reports. These roles are:

Presenter: the person actually giving the presentation and taking questions.

Note taker: the person recording the administrative details (final times, students, and roles of the
report), a summary of the questions and discussion raised by the report, and a final posting of this
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 7/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
information to all of the appropriate outlets (such as the group discussion board).

Timer: the person who tracks and enforces the time limits (give a signal to the speaker at, say,
five minutes, insure the presentation ends at six minutes, and that the discussion is over after ten
minutes from the start of the presentation).
### E. Functional activity contribution (15%):

Functional activities take the day-to-day research activities and turn them into the final work
product. You will need to participate in at least one functional activity. Such activities include
presenting at formal reviews, being backup presenter for formal reviews, joining a synthesis
group[15], serving on an editorial board[16], or serving on the presentation editorial board. Other
functions may be needed as well.
### F. Self and peer evaluations (10%):

Every student is required to complete periodic evaluations of self, peers, Project Manager(s), and
faculty. Only the self and peer evaluations are used in grading (but we do note whether you have
completed the other evaluations by the deadline). For these evaluations, you will give a numerical
rating on several criteria and provide written comments about contributions to the work and group
function. While a small portion of the overall grade, the results of these evaluations are given
added importance on those cases where a grade is on the borderline.
### G. Homework (5%):

We may have a few assignments during the course to get everyone up to speed on the topic and
to generate a research plan. We will give -1/0/+1 grades to indicate whether your work was weak,
average, or above average with respect to our expectations.

Communication
We will use the Canvas site to upload and share files and documents related to the project. As
previously noted, you will also use Canvas to complete the weekly work log. Your group should
decide on, and coordinate the use of, other tools, such as Google Drive, Evernote, Dropbox, Slack,
etc.

Draft Reports
At the top of each section of each draft report you need to have a Contributors section that names
the people responsible for that section of the text. The contributors section should have the following
format:
***CONTRIBUTORS***
Research/Analysis: name_of_responsible_team_member(s)
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 8/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Writing: name_of_responsible_team_member(s)
Editing: name_of_responsible_team_member(s)
***CONTRIBUTORS***
Documentation and Referencing
We cannot stress enough the need for constant and vigilant documentation and referencing.

This is essential to good analysis and the ultimate credibility of your work. Taking five minutes here
and there throughout the semester will save many hours trying to do this at the end of the course
(when time is at a premium).

Throughout the course, you will be reading documents and accumulating large amounts of data from
a variety of sources. We collectively refer to this material as “data.” Data can be loosely defined as
databases, primary literature, grey literature, pictures, quotes, newspaper articles, industry websites,
etc. This list is not exhaustive as data are NOT just numbers. Data will be used in homework,
presentations, and the final project report, and it must always be cited in those or any other
documents. All accumulated data needs documentation of its source even if we do not end up using
it in final materials. It is imperative that you record the full source of any data as you gather it,
not when you need to use it in one of the course documents. You should get in the habit of sourcing
your data as you gather it. This must happen even if you are taking a loose set of notes from a
source (where it may be almost impossible to back track and find the original source later).

Data without an accurate source is not usable.

When creating a reference, you should simply think – “Can someone else (perhaps long into the
future) find this data or source with the information that I am providing.” If in doubt, add more info
than you think someone would need.
## References in a report have a style. We ask that you use the inline, (author, date) style for the final

report and presentation text, and an end-of-chapter list of full bibliographic references in the final
report.

Some examples for full bibliographic references are below (see the Purdue OWL APA formatting and
style guide for more information; https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/
(https://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/560/01/) ).

Any website reference must include the date accessed. Your group should decide on a standard
format for such entries and use it throughout the course.
### Journal (Single or 2 authors):

Abbasi, T., and S. A. Abbasi. 2012. Is the Use of Renewable Energy Sources an Answer to the
Problems of Global Warming and Pollution? Critical Reviews in Environmental Science and
Technology 42:99-154.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 9/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
### Journal (Three or more authors):

Fischlein, M., J. Larson, D. M. Hall, R. Chaudhry, T. R. Peterson, J. C. Stephens, and E. J.

Wilson. 2010. Policy stakeholders and deployment of wind power in the sub-national context: A
comparison of four US states. Energy Policy 38:4429-4439.
### Government Report:

Aden, A., M. Ruth, K. Ibsen, J. Jechura, K. Neeves, J. Sheehan, B. Wallace, L. Montague, A.

Slayton, and J. Kukas. 2002. Lignocellulosic Biomass to Ethanol Process Design and
Economics Utilizing Co-Current Dilute Acid Prehydrolysis and Enzymatic Hydrolysis for Corn
Stover. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, NREL/TP-510-32438.

Or
### U.S. Department of Energy Annual Energy Review 2008; Energy Information Administration:

Washington, DC, 2009; http://www.eia.doe.gov/aer/pdf/aer.pdf. Accessed January 7, 2013.
### Book:

Hendrickson, C., L. Lave, and H. S. Matthews. 2006. Environmental Life Cycle Assessment of
Goods and Services: An Input-Output Approach. Resources for the Future, Washington, D.C.
### Internet Database:

The Beneficial Use Values Database. UC-Davis’ Agricultural and Resource Economics
Department. http://buvd.ucdavis.edu/index.htm (Accessed January 7, 2013).
### Newspaper:

Galbraith, K. (2011). Natural gas, scrutinized, pushes for growth. March 10 Issue New York
Times. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/03/11/us/11ttgas.html?_r=0 (Accessed January 7, 2013).

Citations to web-accessed material must include the full URL link and the date it was accessed.

Photos and graphs obtained from outside sources must be properly attributed and only included with
the required permissions (or be allowable outright, such as being in the public domain or licensed
under creative commons).

When in doubt about citations, err on too much information, not too little.
### A Few Key Notes

Be a very careful and critical consumer of any material you find during the course--- doubt
everything. Throughout your academic career, you have been given readings as gospel to be
memorized and reiterated. In this course, you will be exposed to a variety of material, some of
which might be wrong or weakly supported (especially from secondary sources like the news
media). Any statements you make in the report or during the course must be well grounded in
reasonable scientific approaches tied to solid analysis and evidence.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 10/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
For many of you, this will be your first exposure to a “work place” environment, and thus along
with doing quality work, you will be confronted with issues such as: poor communication across
the group, conflicting instructions and goals, and group dynamics and individual behavior that
may be far from optimal. Alas, these types of issues will be part of the course and, more
importantly, part of the real world you will soon enter. Indeed, these issues arise whenever you
have a group attempting to solve an open- ended problem. During the course, you should strive
to be part of the solution, not the problem, in the group’s efforts.

The role of the instructors and project manager is different than in a typical course. This is not a
course where the instructors know the right answer in advance and teach it to you. Rather, they
are here to give advice, suggest alternatives, help organize, ensure quality standards, and so on.

Like in the real world, sometimes the advice they give may not be all that helpful or lead to a dead
end. That is the nature of this course.

Students often enter this course with preconceptions that are not very useful. These range from
odd benchmarks like “every group just needs to write 30 pages for the final report” to “I’m going to
front load the work and just contribute in the first half of the course.” These, and other such
beliefs, are just wrong. For example, for the group to succeed, you will need to consistently
deliver a high-quality effort during the entire semester, always be proactive, and step up to lead
the group when needed.

In this class, we will adopt a continuous model for the written report whereby the current draft is
always available online, and it is always undergoing continuous improvement and advancement.

By the first advisory board meeting, the written report should provide a high-quality presentation
of the needed background information and proposed analyses. The final report will build on this
work by including the full analyses and final recommendations.

The editorial board has the responsibility to devise document and presentation templates,
standards for citation handling (e.g. will a citation manager be used?) and specifying what online
tools for collaborative writing, document storage and communication will be used. These should
be done within the first few weeks of the course.
### Policy on Academic Integrity Including Cheating and Plagiarism

Students should familiarize themselves with the CMU Policies on Academic Integrity and the
definitions and descriptions of Cheating and Plagiarism https://www.cmu.edu/policies/ student-andstudent-life/academic-integrity.html. All student writing, presentation slides, or other materials
submitted for this course must have an appropriate reference citation as discussed below. Note that
the penalty for plagiarism can be failure of the course.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 11/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Policy on Diversity
We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national
origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry,
belief, veteran status, or genetic information.

Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives
our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity,
equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want
to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside
and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly
embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They
contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university.

Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment
on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after
the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268- 2150
Report-It online anonymous reporting
platform: net (http://reportit.net/) username: tartans password: plaid
Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I
encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as
possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you
suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet
registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:access@andrew.cmu.edu) .

Wellness
Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will
help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. There are many helpful resources available on
campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner rather than later is almost always helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 12/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/ (http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/) . Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Tentative Schedule for the Semester (subject to change)
Notes: Weekly Work Log entries are always due by noon each Friday
‡ Indicates non-class time meetings.
8/27 General meeting for course description
Read assigned readings
8/29 Initial discussion
Brainstorm problem structure, tasks and subgroups
Finalize discussion of project organization
9/3
Break into subgroups
## Discussion of problem strategy

9/5 Set up initial Editorial Board
Finalize collaborative technology
9/10 Groups report on work plans
9/12 Working session
9/17 Group report on work plans
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 13/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Working session
9/19 Expectations for Review Board
Structure first presentation
9/24 First rehearsal
9/26 Second rehearsal
9/29‡ Third rehearsal (location/time TBD)
First presentation to Review Board
Initial draft report due (full write up and proper formatting for all
10/1
background information and initial analyses, with placeholders for
proposed analyses and other sections)
Discuss feedback from the Review Board
10/3 Revise strategy as needed
Finalize Editorial Board and document standards
10/8 Working session
10/10 Working session
10/15 Fall Break
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 14/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
10/17 Fall Break
10/22 Working Session
10/24 Group reports
Draft report due
10/29
Working Session
Working session
10/31
Comments on Draft
11/5 Democracy Day: No Classes
11/7 Working session
Draft report due
11/12 Working session
Comments on draft
11/14
Working session
11/19 Working session
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 15/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
11/21 First rehearsal
Final Report Due!!!
11/26
Second rehearsal
11/28 No Class—Thanksgiving
12/1‡ Final rehearsal (location/time TBD)
12/3 Final presentation to the review board
12/5 Address comments from the Review Board
12/9-13 (Finals week) Complete any remaining tasks
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 16/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
[1] Polar Semiconductor, “How Many Semiconductor Chips are in a Car?
(https://polarsemi.com/blog/blog-semiconductor-chips-in-a-car/) ”, Nov 30, 2023.
[2] Brinley, Stephanie, “The semiconductor shortage is –mostly—over for the auto industry
(https://www.spglobal.com/mobility/en/research-analysis/the-semiconductor-shortage-is-mostly-overfor-the-auto-industry.html) ,” S&P Global Mobility, July 12, 2023.
[3] Seredynski, Paul, “Software shift: GM to hire 3,000 tech engineers
(https://www.sae.org/news/2020/11/software-shift-gm-to-hire-3000-tech-engineers) ,” SAE International,
Nov 12, 2020
[4] Fürst, Simon, “Challenges in the Design of Automotive Software,” 2010 Design, Automation & Test
in Europe Conference & Exhibition,” IEEE, March 2010.
[5] Wikipedia, “OnStar (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OnStar) ,” visited July 30, 2024.
[6] Satariano, Adam, et al, “Chaos and Confusion: Tech Outage Causes Disruption Worldwide,” NYT,
July 19, 2024.
[7] Parekh, N. and Campau, T., “Fuel for Thought: Average age of vehicles in the US hits new
record (https://www.spglobal.com/mobility/en/research-analysis/fuel-for-thought-average-agevehicles-
2024.html#:~:text=May%2030%2C%202024-,Fuel%20for%20Thought%3A%20Average%20age%20of%20v
ehicles,the%20US%20hits%20new%20record&text=Vehicles%20on%20the%20road%20are,by%20two%2
0months%20over%202023.) ,” S&P Global, May 30, 2024.
[8] Marshall, Aarian, “Cars Are Rolling Computers Now. So What Happens When They Stop Getting
Updates?” Wired.com, July 25, 2024.
[9] Hill, Kashmir, “Automakers are Sharing Consumers’ Driving Data with Insurance Companies,”
March 11, 2024.
[10] Van Huynh Le, Jerry den Hartog and Nicola Zannone, “Security and privacy for innovative
automotive applications: A survey (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2018.09.010) ,” Computer
Communications, 132, 2018, pp. 17-41.
[11] https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:32019R2144#d1e723-1-1
(https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX:32019R2144#d1e723-1-1)
[12] ibid
[13] NHTSA, “Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards: Automatic Emergency Braking Systems
for Light Vehicles (https://www.regulations.gov/document/NHTSA-2023-0021-0007) ,” Final Rule,
Docket NHTSA-2023-0021, May 9, 2024.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 17/18

10/30/24, 1:10 PM 90719-A: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
[14] NHTSA, “Advanced Impaired Driving Prevention Technology
(https://www.regulations.gov/document/NHTSA-2022-0079-0015) ,” Advanced Notice of Proposed
Rulemaking, Docket (NHTSA-2022-0079) (https://www.regulations.gov/docket/NHTSA-2022-0079) ,
Jan 5, 2024.
[15] Synthesis groups write the introduction, conclusion, and executive summary of the final report,
and prepare slides for the final presentation.
[16] The editorial boards create the templates for the paper and presentation, compile the group
submissions into single files, create the front matter for the paper, and do any final editing.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90719-a?module_item_id=5809136 18/18