# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, Canvas, this course, AI, CMU, BDM, this class, the course, media
**Document Length**: 7080 words

---

# 88-302 | 88-602 | 90-806

Behavioral Decision-Making
Class Days and Times Tues & Thurs 3:30pm – 4:50pm
### Class Location Hamerschlag Hall B131

### Instructor Kevin Jarbo, PhD

Email kjarbo@cmu.edu
Office Porter Hall 223A
Office Hours TBA
Schedule with Me https://calendly.com/kjarbo
### Grad TA Aaron Balleisen

Email aballeis@andrew.cmu.edu
### Office Hour Location TBA

Office Hours TBA
### Undergrad Grader Erica Zheng

Email ericaz@andrew.cmu.edu
Syllabus Last Updated August 25, 2024
What is this course about?

Behavioral decision making (BDM) is the study of how people make decisions in
terms that can eventually help them to make better decisions. It draws together
research from psychology, economics, and other fields such as marketing and
management. BDM delves into the cognitive processes that underlie our choices
and extends to applications that range from managing potentially hazardous
technologies, to public policy for encouraging healthier behavior, to techniques for
making people happier and more honest.

In this course, we will cover behavioral theories of probabilistic inference, intuitive
prediction, preference, and decision-making. Topics include heuristics and biases in
inference, prediction, and choice; decision-making in social and moral domains; and
ways to improve decision-making. We will emphasize the mutually reinforcing
relationship between theory and application.

What will you learn in this course?

Course Goals
The overarching goal of this class is to provide a broad, though not comprehensive,
survey of the field of BDM. Toward that end, I want you all to understand 1) how
psychological biases, heuristics, and effects systematically impact decision-making
processes and outcomes, and 2) which kinds of behavioral interventions can
minimize those impacts to improve decision-making at individual and group levels.

Importantly, you will learn and practice communicating your knowledge and
understanding to a general audience in a variety of ways, written and verbally.

Learning Objectives
By the end of the semester, you should be able to….
## 1. Identify and discuss major areas of BDM research verbally and in writing.

## 2. Apply theories from psychology and BDM research to explain biases in

human judgment and decision-making processes and outcomes.
## 3. Compare scientific literature with popular press and media on BDM.

## 4. Use evidence from BDM research studies to explain decision-making

behavior in applied social and policy-oriented issues.
## 5. Explain why and evaluate whether and how much behavioral interventions

can minimize the systematic influence of psychological biases, heuristics, and
effects on human judgment and decision-making.
## 6. Present decision science research in a popular press and social media-based

style to communicate scientific theories and findings to an audience of the
general public (All Undergraduate and Graduate Sections).
## 7. Propose an experiment that identifies a biased decision-making process or

outcome related to your current or intended research and hypothesize an
intervention to minimize the bias you identified. (Graduate Sections Only).

What required learning resources will you need?

There are no required textbooks for this course. Throughout the course, I’ll refer
to and make personal recommendations for books authored by researchers whose
work we’ll cover. You will not be required to read any of those books, but they
might be of interest to anyone who wants to engage with course material in a way
that is more accessible to general population outside of academia. Feel free to
email me to borrow a copy if I have one or check out a physical, digital, or
audiobook copy from a CMU Library or for free from a Carnegie Library.

All other required course documents will be available digitally (e.g., PDF or MS
Word) on Canvas. Learning resources for the course will also include podcasts,
YouTube videos, and long form journalism that are either freely available or
accessible via institutional subscription via CMU. Where possible of available,
podcasts will have transcripts, videos will have closed captioning or subtitles, and
other readings will have audio recording.

I recommend Audemic Scholar (https://audemic.io/) to generate audio readings of
peer-reviewed research articles. Please note that Audemic Scholar is a paid service,
and I strongly suggest you use the free trial or search for other free or low-cost
options before committing to spending any money on this tool.

Why do I teach the way I do?

Creating a learning environment that is identity-safe and, ultimately, identityaffirming is something that I care about far more than diversity, per se. It is a given
that every person in this class is unique–with a different background, upbringing,
culture, and worldview than every other person in class. Because of those individual
differences, your experience and perception of the world and other people in it are
going to be different from each other, potentially in very many ways.

Also, the world and other people in it create experiences and impose perceptions
that can influence who we think we are, how we navigate the world, and how we
interact with and relate to other people. Sometimes, those experiences and
impositions can be threatening and aversive. They can make us feel like we don’t

belong in a place. They can make us unsure of what we are capable of. They can
stress us out physiologically, mentally, and emotionally in ways that take a lot of
internal effort to overcome. Expending energy to keep those thoughts and feelings
at bay to maintain our sense of self-esteem, belonging, competence, and dignity,
hinders our efforts toward achieving real goals for ourselves and each other.

I absolutely do not want you to waste any of your energy in this class worrying
about how you might find yourself in a place that wasn’t built for you to succeed
because of who you are.

To that end, I will work together with you all to ensure that you are maximizing your
experience in this class. This doesn’t mean that everyone is going to get an A. It
doesn’t mean that living up to your own standards of excellence is going to be easy.

What I do mean is that I will work to remove as many barriers to success in this
class as I can–with your help!

For instance, I will make sure required readings are not behind paywalls, or I’ll have
downloads available. If I can find transcripts for podcasts, I’ll post those for people
who might not have access to podcast services. PDFs of lecture slides will also be
provided. I expect to record at least some class lectures and upload them to Box for
future on-demand access. If you need an accommodation that isn’t covered by
guidelines and protocols from the Office of Disability Resources, let me know. I will
work with any and all individual students to create solutions that are fair and
equitable for you, me, and your classmates.

Individually, you are the person who will know the most about what is working and
what’s not when it comes to performing to your standards in this class. If any part
of this course, whether it is related to the content or my instructional style and
capability, are undermining your ability to succeed, then I expect us to have a
respectful dialogue about how we can make progressive changes together. I also
expect that any respect you show to me is also shown to any guests we may have in
the class and especially to your classmates every day.

Again, I have a goal of coming to a shared understanding and mastery of the course
content with you all by learning together as a collective. None of this is going to be
easy, but I’m not interested in making it hard.

Course Policies
Academic Integrity
I fully expect you and everyone taking this course, or any other at the university, to
adhere to CMU’s academic integrity policy. What this specifically means to me:
▪ You will not accept from or distribute to anyone not enrolled in this course
any course material including, but not limited to assignments, discussion or
paper prompts, lecture slides, recordings, readings, or exams. Acceptance or
distribution of course materials will be considered an academic integrity
violation and subject to consequences described in the University’s policy.
▪ You will only submit your own, original work for any and all assignments.
▪ You will not complete any part of the work that any other student will be
submitting for their own grade.
▪ You will not use work completed by any other person to submit for your own
grade or any other student.
▪ You will use generative artificial intelligence tools (henceforth, AI) only in the
permissible ways listed in the section below on Artificial Intelligence Use.
▪ You will not plagiarize work produced by any other person or AI.
▪ You will properly cite and/or acknowledge credit to any other person or AI
used in your work that you will submit for a grade.
▪ You are responsible for verifying the authenticity, validity, and accuracy of
any and all work you cite, data you access, or output from AI that will use for
any part of your worked submitted for a grade.

Grading
You will be graded on a variety of assignments including out-of-class quizzes and
homework problem sets, in-class exams, a social media mini-project, a final project
that can take the form or a written paper, research proposal, or video or audio
podcast, as well as your attendance and in-class participation. Where applicable,
points will be awarded based on detailed instructions or a rubric posted with the

assignment on Canvas. Some assignments will be graded simply for completion.

Assignments completed on time will receive full credit. Late penalties will apply for
all assignments (see Late Assignments and Submissions).
### Assignment and Scoring Overview

▪ Attendance Class will meet 26 times this semester. You may miss up to 4
classes without any impact on your attendance grade. You will receive 5
points for each class meeting you attend for a total of 110 points possible.
▪ In-Class Participation (Reflection Prompts) After the first day, the
remaining 25 class meetings this semester will be a mix of lecture,
discussion, and active learning engagement meant to clarify and deepen
your understanding of course content. At the end of each class period, I will
reserve about 5 minutes for you to reflect the day’s material and explain how
you either gained clarity or would like more clarity from me on one specific
aspect of course content. You will receive 5 points for each class where you
respond to the prompt for a total of 125 points possible.
▪ Quizzes On an almost weekly basis, we’ll post timed quizzes on Canvas with
questions based on the articles and media that you were assigned to read
before an upcoming class session. You will be allowed to refer to the articles
or media during quizzes. Exact dates for these quizzes won’t be posted at the
time this syllabus is posted and we will give at least 1 week notice before the
quizzes are available. The quizzes may require you to search deeply through
readings and media for answers, but the questions will not be designed to be
tricky or misleading–We want to make sure that you are completing readings
and media prior to class and to develop your independent understanding of
course content. Attending and participating in lectures and class discussions
will reinforce your self-directed learning. Expect 10 quizzes across the entire
semester for 10 points each for a total of 100 points possible.
▪ Homework Problem Sets Every 2-3 weeks, we’ll assign you some homework
that you can think of as preparation for exams. They will be relatively low
stakes versions of exams that you can use course material to address. These

assignments might ask you to define key terms, interpret and explain
research findings, or apply theories or research methods to analyze data or
to explain an observed phenomenon in popular press about a course topic.

The first homework will be assigned in Week 2, due prior to Week 4, covering
material from Weeks 2 and 3. Future homework will be assigned on a similar
schedule, only covering material since the last homework and before the
current homework’s due date. Expect 6 homework problem sets worth 40
points each for a total of 240 points possible.
▪ Midterm and Final Exams There will be one midterm exam administered
in class on Thursday, October 10 before Fall Break and a final exam
during the last class meeting on Thursday, December 5. If possible, please
do not make travel plans that will interfere with attending these exam dates. Each
exam will essentially be longer versions of the homework assignments worth
more points. They will have a mix of multiple choice, short answer, and essay
questions geared toward assessing your knowledge, understanding, and
application of theories, research methods and findings as they relate to
behavioral decision-making. Besides that, exams will be closed book and
closed notes. The midterm will cover material from ONLY the first half of the
semester up until the midterm. The final will ONLY cover material after the
midterm. To be clear, the final will NOT be cumulative in terms of past topics,
but you should be able to apply theories and research methods presented
earlier in the course where necessary. Each exam will be worth 200 points for
a total of 400 points possible.
▪ Social Media Mini Project Behavioral decision-making shows up in a lot of
parts of our everyday lives, especially in media designed to influence our
attitudes, beliefs, choices, as well as our consumer preferences. With this
assignment, you’ll choose a video clip of some form of media or brief scene
from a TV show or film that is relevant to at least one of the topics we will
cover in class. These clips should be relatively brief, i.e., less than 2 minutes.

For this Mini Project, you should record video or audio of you explaining how
at least one specific concept from class applies to the clip. Your explanation
should include 1) a discussion of a relevant psychological or behavioral

theory, 2) how you know a person’s decision-making processes or outcomes
are biased or could be influenced by content in the clip by describing
relevant research, and 3) what advice you’d give to someone who might want
to avoid bias and make a better decision for themselves in that situation. For
instance, you might talk about a TV ad comparing multiple aspects of two
competing products or services and explain how joint evaluation can bias
someone’s preferences for one product or service over the other. Then you
can talk about a behavioral science-based strategy for evaluating products
that helps a person make the best choice for themselves. Aside from
accuracy and length requirements, you score will also be based on how
entertaining, insightful, and informative your analysis is. The Mini Project will
be worth a total of 75 points possible.
▪ Semester Project: We will talk about more details of this assignment later in
the semester. For now, think of this assignment as kind of a capstone project
for the course. For undergraduate students in 88-302, you will have the
option of doing a brief audio or video podcast individually (about 5-8
minutes) or in pairs (about 10-15 minutes) or an individual popular pressstyle paper (4–6 pages) that explains BDM research on a specific bias in
decision-making processes or outcomes and an intervention to minimize that
bias. You will have to interview someone with expertise or relevant life
experience to provide context and/or commentary for your project. For
graduate students in 88-602 and 90-806, you will be assigned to draft a
project proposal (6–7 pages) for an experiment, or set of experiments, that
examines a BDM phenomenon covered in class related to your graduate
work. I intend for this assignment to complement your current or intended
graduate research toward completing your Masters or Doctoral degree,
conducting work that you may submit for peer reviewed publication in the
future, or to use as a basis to apply for research grant funding at CMU or
elsewhere. For all students, this project will have multiple parts scored
separately then combined for an overall grade. Each part will have
recommended due dates across the entire semester to help keep your
progress toward completing the project on track. The final part of the

Semester Project is due by 11:59pm on Wednesday, December 11 and
worth a total of 300 points possible.
o Part 1 (Everyone): Visit The Decision Lab’s page on biases to select a
bias, heuristic, or effect as a topic of interest to you and the DecisionMaking Individual Difference Inventory (DMIDI) to select a scale to
measure a decision-making style, approach, attitude, etc. that is
related to your topic of interest.
o Part 2a (Everyone): Find, read, and summarize one scientific article
published in the last 10 years that reports the findings of an
experiment or set of experiments related to your topic of interest. I will
provide a worksheet to guide your summary. For undergrads working
in pairs, each student must find their own unique article.
o Part 2b: (Everyone): Find, read, and upload to Canvas the most
recently published review or meta-analysis paper about your topic of
interest. For undergrads working in pairs, each student must find their
own unique review or meta-analysis paper AND each paper should be
written by non-overlapping authors. You will not have to complete a
summary for these papers, but you should use these as a foundation
for deeper knowledge on your topic of interest.
o Part 3 (Undergrads Only): Outline your podcast or paper. Make sure
to identify who will be interviewing and explain why. I will provide a
worksheet for you to complete, individually.
o Part 3a (Grads Only): Develop and draft your background, research
question, methods, and rationale for your experimental design and
approach. I will provide a worksheet for you to complete this and I
strongly recommend that you schedule meetings with me across the
semester to discuss and receive advice on your project.

o Part 3b (Grads Only): Develop and draft your planned analyses,
hypothesize results, and significance and impact statements. Again, I’ll
provide a worksheet for this and encourage you to meet with me as
needed or desired for advice and support.
o Part 4 (Everyone): Record or write and submit your final project or
research proposal by 11:59pm on Wednesday, December 11. You
may submit your final project any time before this due date, and I
strongly encourage you to do so.
▪ Center for Behavioral Decision Research (CBDR) Research Participation
As you may know, there is a research participant pool that CMU researchers
use to collect data for various studies. Your participation in these studies is
critical for piloting stimuli, refining hypotheses, methods, and analyses, and
collecting data for publication and applying for grant funding. At the time of
this syllabus draft, I have yet to confirm how many hours of participation will
be required and how many points in class your participation will translate to.

No fractional points will be given. Whole hour or nothing. I will update the
syllabus and notify you all when this information is confirmed.
▪ Faculty Course Evaluation (FCE) Extra Credit: If, and only if, there is 100%
FCE completion rate for this course at the end of the semester, everyone will
receive 10 points of extra credit. This is equivalent to a full credit quiz grade
or 5% of an exam grade. There is no penalty for a response rate under 100%,
only the opportunity for everyone to get extra credit for 100% response rate.

### Assignment and Grade Overview

### Assignments and Points Possible

### Assignment # Points Per Assignment Points Possible

### Attendance 21 5 110

### In-Class Participation 25 5 125

### Quizzes 10 10 100

### Homework Problem Sets 6 40 240

### Social Media Mini Project 1 75 75

### Midterm Exam 1 200 200

### Final Exam 1 200 200

### Semester Project* 1 300 300

### CBDR Research Participation** TBA TBA TBA

### FCE Extra Credit 1 10 10

Total Points Possible*** 1360
*Points per part of the Semester Project will vary and the total will be 300 points.
**Confirmation about participation hours required and point translation is pending as
of August 25, 2024. I will notify class immediately upon confirmation.
***Total Points Possible will update per previous point.
### Points, Percentages, and Letter Grade Correspondence

This table only reflects points possible for required, graded assignments, exams,
and projects, attendance and participation. It does not include extra credit. NOTE:
Confirmation about CBDR Research Participation and points possible is pending.
### Total Points Percentages Grade

1217 – 1360 89.5% and above A
1088 – 1216 80% – 89.5% B
952 – 1087 70% – 79.5% C
816 – 951 60% – 69.5% D
### < 816 Below 60% R

### Late Assignments and Submissions

I understand that you might have legitimate reasons request extensions, and I will
review any requests in the case of emergencies or other personal matters including
serious illness, hospitalization, or family (construed broadly) tragedy. If you know
ahead of time that you’ll need an extension (e.g., you have a mandatory
appointment on an assignment due date), email me at least 7 days in advance with
your request. Otherwise, please plan to submit your work on time or early.

I will accept late assignments up to one week after the posted due date. However,
your final score on the assignment will be reduced by 10% for each day that the
assignment is late up to 5 days, meaning that you can still earn up to 50% of the
total points possible. For example, if you submit an assignment 5 days late and it
was worth 100 points, you can still earn up to 50 points. Once an assignment is one
week late, I will still give you feedback on it, but it will be scored as a 0. Late
deductions will be applied automatically via Canvas, and I will not negotiate
scores on late assignments if I did not already grant you an extension.

Exam Make-Up
If you know you will miss the scheduled midterm or final exam or if another urgent
matter prohibits you from attending class and taking either exam in person, please
email or schedule a meeting with me right away–Friday the week before the exam
at the latest, if possible. We will identity an alternative day and testing environment
for you to complete the exam no later than the Friday after Fall Break for the
midterm and the official final exam make-up day for the final.

Communicating with Your Classmates and Me
Canvas, email, office hours or meetings by appointment, and whatever your
classmates arrange are all ways to communicate with each other and/or me. I
expect to reply to emails within 24 hours of receiving them during the week. I
typically check and reply to email only once over the weekend. For emails sent after
5pm on Friday, expect a response the following Monday. This applies for the Grad
TA, Aaron, and Undergrad Grader, Erica, as well.

Feel free to schedule a meeting with me anytime with this Calendly link. Calendly
shows all my meeting availability, automatically adds meetings to my calendar, and
will send you a reminder email. You can choose to meet in person or via video call.

Other than that, you can always stop me to chat when you see me around campus!

Attendance & Participation
TL; DR – Come to class. Be engaged. It’s important for everybody. Don’t miss more than 4
classes or your overall attendance grade will be a 0. Contact me ASAP if you think
attendance will be an issue for any reason. If you miss a day, you can still earn full
participation points by meeting with me and engaging with class asynchronously.

Your attendance and participation in class are extremely important because there
will be in-class discussions and activities where Aaron and I will be able to observe
how effective and useful various aspects of our instruction is working for you all. If
you miss classes, you also miss opportunities to engage with the course material in
the variety of ways I have planned, to master course material, and to evaluate your
own learning and progress across the course. Show up–It’s important for us all!

Attendance
All class meetings will be in person in Hamerschlag Hall B131. You are expected to
be physically present in class for all class meetings. If some issue arises where we
will need to meet in an alternative location or via Zoom, I will do my best to notify
you all at least 48 hours ahead of time barring an emergency.

I will treat all absences from class the same–If you miss class for any reason, you
will be marked absent and receive a 0 for attendance that day. I will never require
you to provide a reason for missing class.

If you miss more than 4 classes across the entire semester, you will receive an
overall attendance grade of 0. I will contact you directly if you miss 2 classes before
Fall break. If you expect to miss more than 4 classes across the semester, email or
visit me during office hours or a scheduled meeting so that we can decide on a
solution for your specific situation.

Participation
I expect every student to complete the in-class reflection prompt every day that
class meets along with other interactive activities I have planned. Given that you
might not be able to attend every class, you can still earn participation points for
completing the reflection prompts even if you were absent.

If you miss a class, please plan to meet with me to review course material we
covered AND complete that day’s reflection prompt within one week of your
absence. You must email me or use Calendly to schedule a 30-minute meeting
within one week of the class you missed. So, if you missed class on a Thursday, you
must meet with me and submit your reflection prompt response by end of the day
on Wednesday the following week. I will not meet in person or virtually at all on
weekends or after 7pm.
### Electronic Device and Artificial Intelligence Use

### Electronic Device Use in Class

Cell phones, laptops, and tablets are welcome in the classroom but must be used
only for class activities, like online polls. Please silence your phone at the beginning
of class and put it away except when using it for a class activity. You may not use
devices for social media, texting, or anything unrelated to class activities.

Research shows that dividing your attention by using devices in class 1) harms your
long-term retention of information, and 2) corresponds to lower exam scores for
you and other students distracted by your device. If using your device obviously
distracts you or anyone else, I will give you a warning first, ask you to put your
device away on a second infraction, and ask you to leave class for the remainder of
the period on a third infraction. You will also receive a 0 for participation that day.

Artificial Intelligence Use
Certain assignments in this course will permit the use of generative artificial
intelligence (AI) tools, such as Microsoft Copilot–which is the only AI tool authorized
by the University for use. Generative AI can produce biased and inaccurate output,
so using AI tools might increase rather than decrease the time and effort you spend

on this course. We are all responsible for maintaining everyone’s confidential
academic information. I have chosen to limit AI use in this class to tasks where it is
efficient, legal (see FAQ #8), and not in violation of CMU’s Academic Integrity
Policies. This policy applies to work you intend to submit for a grade in this course.
### AI and the Environment

If consequences associated with Academic Integrity Violations are not compelling
enough reasons to avoid or limit AI use, then consider its environmental impact.

Recent reports and research have found that AI data centers consume 1-2% of
global energy annually, as much as countries the size of Japan or Argentina. That
consumption is rising each year as generative AI continues to be incorporated into
technology that 100s of millions of people use multiple times every day (think:
generative AI built into Google searches). When AI responds to 5 image prompts or
50 text prompts, that process can use up to 16 oz. of water for cooling. The average
US adult drinks about 40 oz. per day. US AI data centers are also being built in rural
areas where land is cheap and non-renewable energy like coal and gas are still
abundant. For instance, states like Virginia are slowing or halting their transition to
clean energy sources, using coal from West Virginia instead. Heat output from AI
data centers may also contribute to extreme temperatures in the Southwest US.

Internationally, tech companies are looking to East, South, and Southeast Asia for
cheap land, energy and natural resources, increasing data center footprints.

Since I cannot practically enforce a policy that limits or disallows your use of
AI, I encourage you to research and make your own decision about whether
and how much you use AI in the permissible ways for this course.
### You are permitted to use Copilot or Grammarly in the following ways:

▪ Proofreading or revising your own written or typed assignments, or scripts
for any class projects.
o In lieu of AI, I strongly recommend using Communication Support
and/or Language and Cross-Cultural Support from the Student
Academic Success Center or Grammarly for support with your writing
and presentation skills.

▪ Generating digital images or illustrations for use in assignments or
presentations.
### You are not permitted to use AI in any of these ways:

▪ As a primary source of information to use as the basis for your own or any
partner-based work.
▪ To willfully or unintentionally create false, inaccurate, unverifiable, or
otherwise misleading information or content.
▪ To draft the first version of any of your written or typed assignment, scripts
for any class projects.
▪ To draft feedback on any written or typed assignments, scripts for any class
projects, or any other written, typed, course-related material drafted by you,
me, or any other student.

Using, paraphrasing, or quoting AI-generated content must be appropriately
acknowledged and cited in all assignments that you submit in this course according
to the guidelines established in the APA Style Guide.

It is your responsibility to assess the validity and applicability of any AI
output that you submit for a grade. You may not earn full credit if inaccurate on
invalid information is found in your work. Deviations from the guidelines above will
be considered violations of CMU’s academic integrity policy. Please contact me if
you have questions or concerns regarding what is permissible or not in this course
if it is not listed above.

Recording Policy
I may record classroom activities for educational use only by students enrolled in
the course and me to improve the course and my instruction in the future. These
recordings may not be further copied, distributed, published, or otherwise used for
any other purpose without my express written consent. If personal recordings
would facilitate your learning, please email me to formally request permission to
create your own recordings for your personal use only. All students are advised
that classroom activities may be taped by students for this purpose. Course
sessions may be recorded by course instructors for posting on Canvas.

All course lectures, slides, assignments, and recordings of course sessions are
provided solely for educational use by students enrolled in the course and may not
be distributed to any other person or posted on the internet.
### Self and Community-Based Care

I’ll say this up front: Some of the following solutions might not work for you for any
number of reasons–and that is totally OK! Please connect with me if you want to
confidentially discuss alternatives for addressing personal circumstances or issues
that might affect you in class.

Life, and especially life at CMU, can be stressful. That stress can make “the struggle”
very real, very intense, and potentially harmful to academic achievement, but more
importantly, our health and wellbeing. As much as we all individually work to
maintain a physically, mentally, and emotionally healthy lifestyle, our social
connections and institutional structures that support our individual efforts are
crucial for surviving, sustaining, and thriving wherever we are.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus, and an important part of the college
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than
later is often helpful. If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress,
difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage
you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help. Call 412-268-2922 and
visit their website at https://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty, or family member you trust for assistance getting connected to the
support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call
someone immediately, day or night:
▪ CaPS: 412-268-2922
▪ Resolve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226

▪ If the situation is life threatening, call the police
### *  On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323

### *  Off campus: 911

University Policies
I will adhere to all CMU policies that are not expressly included in this document. I
expect that you and all other students in class will do the same.
### CMU Diversity Statement and Ethics Reporting Information

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this
diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive
campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves,
including but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age,
sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status,
or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not
mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our
campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only
because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue
justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work,
inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus
community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or
unintentional. They contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for
individuals and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages
anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment on the basis of
identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or
after the incident has passed using the following resources:
▪ Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 2682150
▪ Ethics Reporting Hotline: Students, faculty, and staff can anonymously file a
report by calling 844-587-0793 or visiting cmu.ethicspoint.com.

All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any
following actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared
experiences to transform our campus climate to be more equitable and just.
### For Anyone Experiencing Food Insecurity

If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are
resources on campus that can help. Any undergraduate or graduate student can
visit the CMU Pantry and receive food for free. Follow the directions on the CMU
Pantry website to schedule your visit.

Connecting with the Office of Disability Resources
If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to use their online system to notify me of your accommodations
and discuss your needs with me as early in the semester as possible (ideally in
within the first two weeks of the semester). I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. Even if you think you might not need
to make use of your accommodation for this class, it is a good idea to tell me about
it in case the accommodation become necessary later in the semester. If you
suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations
please contact the Office of Disability Resources, via email at
access@andrew.cmu.edu or phone at 412-268-2013.
### CMU’s Academic Integrity Statement

Students are expected to respect the integrity of their work as well as that of their
classmates. Please refer to the University Policy for further detail. Evidence of
cheating or plagiarism will be referred to the Department Head and/or the College.

Depending upon the individual violation, students could face penalties ranging
from failing the assignment to failing the class. All violations will be reported
through the University’s Academic Disciplinary Action Procedures for
Undergraduate Students, which is published in The WORD student handbook. To
learn more about the disciplinary actions that can result from dishonesty, refer to
the Office of Community Standards & Integrity. To deter and detect plagiarism,
online tools (e.g., Turnitin) and other resources are used in this class.

The instructor may provide study guides and sample questions from previous
exams to help prepare for the exams in this class. Do not accept or use copies of
previous exams, problem sets, or other assignments from this course that you
receive from any source other than the instructor. Use of previous course materials
from any outside source (e.g., fraternity file or other students) will be considered a
violation of academic integrity, and if you are found to have obtained or distributed
such materials, you will be subject to disciplinary actions.

The instructor may provide materials such as copies of lecture slides posted on
Canvas. These materials are the intellectual property of the instructor and are
provided for use only by students registered for the course in the current semester.

Do not share these materials with people outside the current class or post them to
online repositories such as Course Hero. If you are found to have shared course
materials inappropriately, you will be subject to disciplinary actions.

### Course Content & Schedule

All assignments and details (e.g., due dates, points possible) and required and
supplemental readings, media, and other course content will be posted on Canvas.
### Dates Weekly Topics and Assignments

## Week 1

### Aug. 27 Welcome & Course Intro

Aug. 29 What Makes Decisions Hard?
## Week 2

Sep. 3 Heuristics
### Sep. 5 Intuitive Statistics

## Week 3

### Sep. 10 Scientific Reasoning

### Sep. 12 False Confessions

## Week 4

### Sep. 17 COVID Testing & Vaccine Efficacy

Sep. 19 Algorithms
## Week 5

### Sep. 24 Confidence & Calibration

### Sep. 26 Normative Choice

## Week 6

### Oct. 1 Descriptive Choice

### Oct. 3 Midterm Exam Review

## Week 7

### Oct. 8 Choice Paradox

### Oct. 10 Midterm Exam

Fall Break – No Classes Oct. 14–18
## Week 8

### Midterm Grades Posted Wednesday, Oct. 23

### Oct. 22 Repugnant Transactions

Oct. 24 Free
## Week 9

### Oct. 29 Moral Decision-Making

Oct. 31 Cheating

## Week 10

Tuesday, Nov. 5 – US Election and CMU Democracy Day – No Classes
Nov. 7 Discrimination
## Week 11

### Nov. 12 Charitable Giving

### Nov. 14 Gift Giving

## Week 12

Nov. 19 Self-Control
### Nov. 21 Improving Decision-Making

## Week 13

### Nov. 26 Special Topic Lecture: TBD

### Thursday, Nov. 28 – Thanksgiving – No Classes

## Week 14

### Dec. 3 Final Exam Review Session

### Dec. 5 Final Exam

Finals Week
### Semester Project Due Wednesday, Dec. 11

### Dec. 18 Final Grades Posted

### Required Journal Article Readings

See Canvas for all required, optional, and additional readings and media. The
following list of papers are ones we will cover most extensively in class that you will
be expected to know well for quizzes, homework problem sets, and exams. NOTE:
These articles may NOT be used as the primary source for your Semester Project.

Frey, B. S., & Gallus, J. (2014). The power of awards. Economists’ Voice, 11(1), 1–5.
https://doi.org/10.1515/ev-2014-0002
Galak, J., Givi, J., & Williams, E. F. (2016). Why Certain Gifts Are Great to Give but Not
to Get: A Framework for Understanding Errors in Gift Giving. Current Directions in
Psychological Science, 25(6), 380–385. https://doi.org/10.1177/0963721416656937
Halpern, S. D., & Miller, F. G. (2020). Opinion Cognitive Bias and Public Health Policy
During the COVID-19 Pandemic. JAMA - Journal of the American Medical
Association, E1–E2. https://doi.org/10.7326/m20-2071
Hsee, C. K., & Hastie, R. (2006). Decision and experience: Why don’t we choose what
makes us happy? Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 10(1), 31–37.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tics.2005.11.007
Kahan, D. M., Peters, E., Wittlin, M., Slovic, P., Ouellette, L. L., Braman, D., & Mandel,
G. (2012). The polarizing impact of science literacy and numeracy on perceived
climate change risks. Nature Climate Change, 2(10), 732–735.
https://doi.org/10.1038/nclimate1547
Kahneman, D. (2003). A perspective on judgment and choice: mapping bounded
rationality. The American Psychologist, 58(9), 697–720.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.58.9.697
Kahneman, D., & Tversky, A. (1984). Choices, values, and frames. American
Psychologist, 39, 341–350. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.39.4.341
Li, M., Vietri, J., Galvani, A. P., & Chapman, G. B. (2010). How do people value life?

Psychological Science: A Journal of the American Psychological Society / APS,
21(December 2009), 163–167. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797609357707
Milkman, K. L., Akinola, M., & Chugh, D. (2012). Temporal Distance and
Discrimination: An Audit Study in Academia. Psychological Science, 23(7), 710–717.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797611434539

Milkman, K. L., Chugh, D., & Bazerman, M. H. (2009). How Can Decision Making Be
Improved? Perspectives on Psychological Science, 4, 379–383.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1745-6924.2009.01142.x
Moore, D. A., & Schatz, D. (2017). The three faces of overconfidence. Social and
Personality Psychology Compass, 11(8), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1111/spc3.12331
Pope, D., & Simonsohn, U. (2011). Round Numbers as Goals. Psychological Science,
22(1), 71–79. https://doi.org/10.1177/0956797610391098
Roberto, C. A. (2020). How psychological insights can inform food policies to
address unhealthy eating habits. The American Psychologist, 75(2), 265–273.
https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000554
Shalvi, S., Gino, F., Barkan, R., & Ayal, S. (2015). Self-Serving Justifications: Doing
Wrong and Feeling Moral. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 24(2), 125–
130. https://doi.org/10.1177/0963721414553264
Shampanier, K., Mazar, N., & Ariely, D. (2007). Zero as a Special Price: The True
Value of Free Products. Marketing Science, 26(6), 742–757.
https://doi.org/10.1287/mksc.1060.0254
Small, D. A., Loewenstein, G., & Slovic, P. (2007). Sympathy and callousness: The
impact of deliberative thought on donations to identifiable and statistical
victims. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 102, 142–153.
https://doi.org/10.4324/9781849776677