# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Canvas, Mgt, 1:11 PM, MVP, ###, 90XXX, Public Policy, Pub Pol, Pub Pol & Mgt, AI
**Document Length**: 3418 words

---

# 10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
# 90783-A2

Syllabus subject to change.

Course No: 90-793
### Course Name: Policy Innovation Lab: Public Interest Technology

## Section: A2

Day: Tuesdays
Time: 6:30 - 9:20 PM
Location: HBH 1006 (Pittsburgh)
Professor
Chris Goranson (cgoranso@andrew.cmu.edu), Hamburg Hall 2105B, Office Hours on Canvas.

Teaching Assistant (TA)
Aakash Dolas (adolas@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:adolas@andrew.cmu.edu) ), Office Hours on
Canvas.

Course website
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/
About this course
The Policy Innovation Lab is a new Public Interest Technology initiative that connects students with
real policy challenges and introduces an agile, design-driven framework to rapidly create solutions to
those challenges. This course is an experiment in improving public policy by working outside the
traditional structures of government.

Students will be working with external partners to investigate real problem spaces and building
policy-driven prototypes driven by user research. Students will work to solve pressing challenges by
redefining the problem in terms of understanding the affected users of systems, conducting usercentered research, designing solutions, testing those same solutions, and iteratively improving those
outcomes. This course is designed to take advantage of recent lessons learned in applied innovation
in government entities around the world. The actual outcomes will be heavily dependent on both the
needs of the problem sets for each course as well as the skills of the students.

The course will apply some methodologies commonplace in industry like agile, design-thinking, and
prototyping to deliver open source products and services that have the potential to live on beyond the
course. For public-facing projects, work will be done in a transparent manner where possible in order
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 1/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
to encourage external participation. Students will be expected to embrace a culture that expects and
encourages rapid iteration, express a willingness to fail early in order to discover a solution that
ultimately works, and a flat structure that provides students with an opportunity to deliver for our
government partners.

Prerequisites
This course is designed for graduate-level experience that have at a minimum basic computer
proficiency skills. This means you should feel comfortable working with data in spreadsheets, an
ability to write clearly and organize materials well, an interest in exploring new programs and present
a willingness to learn something outside of your comfort zone.

Learning outcomes
## 1. Apply agile methodologies and iterative design strategies to understand how to support

innovation in a government agency.
## 2. Use agile and lean methods to make cross-disciplinary teams and government partner

interactions functional and valuable.
## 3. Conduct conduct user research to design better experiences for citizens.

## 4. Build prototypes quickly, test them, and repeat the process with stakeholder involvement.

## 5. Develop and document a final Minimum Viable Product and deliver clean handoff to the partner.

Learning Resources
### There is one required text you'll need for this course:

Knapp, Jake, John Zeratsky, and Braden Kowitz. Sprint: How to Solve Big Problems and Test
New Ideas in Just Five Days. 2016.
### Other reference materials include:

Readings and videos provided on Canvas
Slides used in lectures provided on Canvas
Dataset provided on Canvas or through external links
Calendar
## Week one

First class begins on Tuesday, October 22nd, 2024.
### Assignments:

### - Intro workshop #1: "How might we"

- Setting up teams, and completing project preferences survey.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 2/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
### - Week one graded discussion

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week two (10/29-11/04)

Workshop: Virtual workshop with partner agencies and organizations. Management and project
scoping, intro to user-centered design. Project teams finalized.
### Assignments:

### - Intro workshop #2: "Project management and sprint planning"

### - Setting up project management structure, sprint and project documentation

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week three (11/05-11/11)

User centered design & user research
### Assignments:

### - Sprint and project documentation, and creation of your research plan and conducting user

interviews.

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week four (11/12-11/18)

User research, intro to prototyping.
### Assignments:

- Sprint and project documentation. Synthesizing user research into a report, creation and demo of
first prototype.

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week five (11/19-12/25)

Prototyping & defining the MVP.
### Assignments:

- Sprint and project documentation. Synthesizing user research into a report, creation and demo of
first prototype.
### - Workshop #3: "Prototyping"

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week six (12/26-12/02)

https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 3/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Usability testing, and development / testing of the MVP
### Assignments:

- Sprint and project documentation. MVP, final documentation.
### - Workshop #4: "Premortem"

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.
## Week seven: Final Delivery (12/03-12/07*)

Last class is 12/03, but you have until 12/07 to turn in your final MVP and deliver to your
partner.
### - Final delivery (MVP), project handoff

### - Final testing of MVP

### - Final presentations

### - Workshop #5: "Course retro"

### Assignments:

- Final sprint and project documentation and related materials.
- Delivery: final demo and handoff of MVP to partner agency.

Assigned readings and other reference materials are on Canvas.

Assessments
### The final course grade will be calculated using the following categories:

### Assessment Percentage of Final Grade

Workshop(s) 10%
## Week one sprint 10%

## Week two sprint 10%

## Week three sprint 10%

## Week four sprint 10%

## Week five sprint 10%

https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 4/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
## Week six sprint 10%

Final delivery (MVP), project handoff 30%
Workshop(s) - 10%
The introductory workshop(s) will be our opportunity to set the stage for managing projects
throughout the duration of the course. During these workshops we'll cover a number of topic areas
that will be relevant, including project / product management, user research, sketching and
prototyping, and delivery.

You will be expected to fully participate in the workshop to develop resources and approaches that
you'll apply throughout the duration of the course. Some of the resources you develop may constitute
assets you'll later turn in as part of an assignment related to introductory workshops.

The final workshop(s) will be both presentations as well as hands-on work to take what you've
developed and apply it as guidance and a methodology that can be used by your partner and others
to improve future outcomes.

Timely class participation and attendance for this course is critical, since in many cases you will be
working in teams in support of an external partner.

Weekly sprints (weeks one through six) - 60%
Team projects will vary widely depending on the needs identified by our partners and available
resources. Team projects will be delivered iteratively each week, meaning that for a seven-week
project you will be expected to incrementally deliver each week.
### Specific deliverables will vary quite a bit depending on the need, but might include things like:

A policy recommendation.

Visualizations of key data or outcome findings.

An economic analysis.

A prototype of a product.

Sketches, wireframes, storyboards or other design artifacts.

A final deliverable (presentation, interactive work, etc.) that is publicly accessible.

A final presentation.

A protocol for user research.
## Part of your challenge will be working with the partner to identify how to be most effective within the

time you have available. Because every project will be different, some will require more prototyping,
while others will require more research and user interviews. These activities are not mutually
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 5/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
exclusive however; you'll need to work within your team to address how to handle multiple demands
on your time each week, and how to prioritize tasks.

At the conclusion of each sprint you will conduct a retrospective. The retrospective will identify what
went well, what could have been improved, and what didn't go very well. This is an opportunity to
both assess your progress alongside input from the external partner as well as apply any lessons
learned to the next week.

Final sprint, delivery (MVP) and project handoff - 30%
Your final project - the creation of the Minimum Viable Product (MVP) is where you'll be taking all of
your work from the previous weeks and handing off what you've created and learned to your project
partner.

Grading Policies
Late-work policy: Late work for this course will not be accepted after the due date unless previously
arranged with the professor to do extraordinary circumstances (for example, illness, family
emergency, out of town). It is important to stay up-to-date on assignments since much of the work
builds on previous assignments and will impact your ability to be effective in providing solutions for
projects.

Re-grade policy: If you think there has been a technical error in the grading of your assignment, you
should e-mail the grader within one week of receiving the grading assignment, otherwise the
assignment will not be regraded. You must provide justification for the re-grade in writing along with
your request.

Course Policies
Open Source First
This is an "Open Source First" course - meaning, that unless otherwise specified, artifacts created
through this class will be completed and released under a Creative Commons / Open Source license
(e.g. Apache License, 2.0). Since the work performed with our partners is intended to serve as
examples of Public Interest Technology, this arrangement will allow our partners and other
government agencies to learn from, adopt and benefit from the work once complete. This obviously
doesn't apply to any information that your partner may share that is sensitive or proprietary in nature,
but a key goal for this course is to demonstrate impactful work in a transparent and accessible
manner.
### Academic Integrity & Collaboration

https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 6/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
This course will follow Heinz College policies on ethics and discipline as stated in student handbooks.
### Specific policies of this course are outlined below:

Homework assignments: This course will involve both individual and group-work since you will be
working together in teams to complete assignments. In the case of individual work, do not copy or
modify homework solutions for your homework solutions. You may consult each other on clarification,
technical and conceptual issues, but you must do individual problem solving and derive your own
solutions, including your own computer work. You are not permitted to be in possession of any
assignments from another student or other source either from the current semester or from past
semesters whether they are electronic or paper. Possession of or sharing such files constitutes an
infraction of the academic integrity policies of this course.

Working with AI tools like ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc: Working with AI tools is an emerging skill and
as such I want you to get exposure to using it to problem-solve and how it can be helpful in other
situations. Therefore, in some instances you'll be welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT,
DALL-E, etc.) in this class.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic
integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. So, if you use one of these generative AI
tools to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your
work. So, while you can use generative AI tools to do things like brainstorm and / or work to develop
a better understanding of a problem (much like you would using a search engine), cutting and pasting
content from any source without citation would be considered plagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasing
content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any generative AI tool
without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The university’s policy on
plagiarism (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html) applies to
all un-cited or improperly cited use of work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in
collaboration with a generative AI.
### Examples of how you might use AI tools for this class include:

Brainstorm approaches to hard-to-solve policy questions by fusing ideas and information together
Develop example outlines or approaches to your work
Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem
### Examples of unacceptable use of AI tools in this class include, but are not limited to:

Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without
quotations and a citation
Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself
Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following provided
guidance
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 7/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really it
is not
If you have any questions about what's acceptable and what's not, you should talk to be before using
these tools - not afterwards when my options for helping you will be much more limited.

It is also important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with
incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory
statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes
integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image
generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

Finally, it is important to note that you understand you are ultimately responsible for the content
that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be
penalized.

Accommodations for students with disabilities: If you have a disability and have an
accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to
ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:access@andrew.cmu.edu) .

Statement on student wellness: As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can
interfere with learning, such as strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling
down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful
events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your ability to participate in daily
activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more about
confidential mental health services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/
(http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/) . Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling and
Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Laptops Mobile Devices: In general this is a course that uses a lot of technology, so it’s expected
that on most days you’ll have your laptop and phone with you. With that said, it’s your responsibility
to be respectful when using these devices. Keep your phone on silent, don’t talk on the phone while
in class, don’t distract others by viewing content on your laptop not relevant to the course, and no
technical devices are allowed for any quizzes or tests administered through this course unless
explicitly stated by the professor.
### Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 8/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national
origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry,
belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others
not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately, incidents of
bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They contribute to creating an
unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university. If you experience or observe
unfair or hostile treatment, you can take advantage of the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:csdi@andrew.cmu.edu) , (412) 268-2150
Report-It (http://www.reportit.net/) online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net
(http://www.reportit.net/) username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions.

Additional Support
The Student Academic Success Center (SASC) (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/) provides a
number of resources to help students learn better. You can find the center's free workshops here
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/workshops/index.html) . Below are some additional
resources that may be helpful to students in this course (descriptions below are from SASC):
Academic Coaching (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/coaching.html) --This
program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to help undergraduate
and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists students with
time management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management, and
other skills. Request an initial consultation here
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) .

Communication Support (https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communicationsupport/index.html) --Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting
as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts
including IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and
visual design, advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public
policy documents, data visualisation, and team projects. Appointments are available to
undergraduate and graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment
(https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/communication-support/make-anappointment.html) (in-person or video), attend a workshop (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/calendar.html) , or consult handouts or videos (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/other-resources/index.html) to strengthen communication skills. Specific resources
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 9/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_0K64z6Auu_bse6wmst5xamYbnrk9Ymd2QgMUKCIZSo/edit?
usp=sharing) for multilingual students are also available.

Language and Cross-Cultural Support (https://www.cmu.edu/studentsuccess/programs/language-support/index.html) --This program supports students seeking help
with language and cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual
and group sessions. Students can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning
expectations and strategies for clear academic writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and
more. Make an
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) appointment
(https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfMAnCWkyPdXRb0zOsMar7nzpUau8hqN_gIFm3OISY5
QMWwyw/viewform) with a Language Development Specialist to get individualized coaching.

Class Recordings
This class is not designed to be recorded on a regular basis. The expectation is that you attend each
course, whether in-person or remote at the time and place where it is offered. However, under
special circumstances, there may times when there is a need to record a class for synchronous and /
or asynchronous access. This allows for the remote viewing of course lectures and in limited cases
the participation in some activities.

Recordings of course sessions are provided solely for educational use by students enrolled in the
course (and only students in this course) and may not be distributed to any other person or posted
on the internet without the express written permission of the course instructor. No student may
record any classroom activity without express written consent from the instructor. Please note that
you are not allowed to share or repost these recordings. This is to protect your FERPA rights and
those of your fellow students.

Please note that breakout rooms will not be recorded. I will try to make any recordings available on
Canvas as soon as possible after each class session (usually within 3 hours of the class meeting).

Recordings will live in our Canvas website.

If you have (or think you may have) a disability such that you need to record or tape classroom
activities, you should contact the Office of Disability Resources to request an appropriate
accommodation.

COVID-19 Considerations
Please see the university's minimum requirements (https://www.cmu.edu/coronavirus/preparingcampus/min-requirements.html) for policies and guidance related to displaying COVID-19 symptoms.

If you display symptoms or have been diagnosed, the current guidance is that you must stay home.

You can contact me at your earliest convenience to make alternate arrangements.
### Other things you are welcome to do to help protect yourself and others include:

https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 10/11

10/30/24, 1:11 PM 90783-A2: Public Policy & Mgt:Sch of Pub Pol & Mgt (90XXX)
entering and exiting the classroom while maintaining appropriate physical distancing,
wearing a facial covering throughout class,
sitting in the seats with appropriate spacing (and not moving furniture),
following good social distancing practices at all times,
using the sanitizing wipes available in the classroom to wipe surfaces (e.g., your desk, tablet arm)
upon entry and exit.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40979/pages/90783-a2?module_item_id=5809152 11/11