# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Effects, the course, Adobe Audition, Adobe Premiere, work, Students, Media, Adobe, Carnegie Mellon
**Document Length**: 1484 words

---

### Media and Communications Design II:

Fall 2024
# 90-804 *  Wean Hall 5201 *  Tuesday/Thursday 9:30-10:40

Gary Franko
Adjunct Faculty
Senior Multi-Media Designer
gf0r@andrew.cmu.edu
HbH 1113
Course Description
In the Media and Communications Design II class we will dive into to audio, animation and video. We 
will be using Adobe Audition to create audio pieces, Adobe After Effects to create animations and Adobe Premiere to create videos. The goal of this course is produce professional materials using type, color, 
illustrations, images, sound, animation and video. These materials will be able to engage and influence 
your target audience. This course will teach a combination of media design skills and software skills.
 
### Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications:

### *  Adobe Audition

### *  Adobe After Effects

### *  Adobe Premiere

Each of the above software programs will have one project/assignment that will be completed by the 
student. These applications will be available to download on your computer. While the class offers a 
jump-start to these applications, students are expected to explore the higher level features on their 
own. Another resource is the Internet - which offers a wealth of tips and techniques for these applications.

Objectives
By the end of the class you will be able to...
*  Create professional multi-media material using a variety of Adobe software.
*  Be able to effectively communicate to your target audience using a variety of mutli-media programs.
*  Become familiar with media design principles.
*  Become familiar with graphic design/multi-media terminology.
*  Be able to effectively communicate with clients, design firms and media content professionals.

Course Structure
*  Class will usually consist hands-on work with the software.
*  Class attendance is critical to learning in this class.
*  I strongly suggest the purchasing of a USB - Jump - Flash portable storage device.

Cheating and Plagiarism
Students must do all of the assignments individually. Students may receive feedback on their work from 
other students, but the final work must be their own. Students are subject to Carnegie Mellon University’s policies on academic integrity. Plagiarism is a serious offense that can result in the student failing 
the course. Note that all academic integrity violations will be reported to the Associate Dean. Additional 
penalties may be imposed.

Date Topics
### October 22: Introduction to Media and Communications Design II

### October 24: Media and Communications Design II Fundamentals

### October 29: Adobe Audition: Introduction

### October 31: Adobe Audition: Podcasting, Movie Sound Track

### November 5: Election Day - No Class

### November 7: Adobe Audition: Creating a Podcast

### November 12: Adobe After Effects: Introduction

### November 14: Adobe After Effects: Advanced Features

### November 19: Adobe After Effects: Text and Images Animation

### November 21: Adobe After Effects: Creating an Animation

November 26: Introduction to video: Story boards and terminology
### November 28: Thanksgiving - No Class

December 3: Adobe Premiere: Editing video, music and images
December 5: Adobe Premiere: Creating and editing a 60 second video
### Assignments:

### Monday, November 11: Adobe Audition Podcast due

Monday, November 25: Adobe After Effects animation due
Wednesday, December 11: Adobe Premiere video due
All assignments are due at 10:00 pm on the above dates.

The assignments will be turned in on Canvas.

Late assignments will not be accepted unless permission is granted ahead of time.

Grading
Grading will be done with a rubric identifying specific requirements for each project.
### *  Adobe Audition Podcast 100 points

### *  Adobe After Effects Animation 100 points

### *  Adobe Premiere Video 100 points

A+ 98-100% Exceptional
A 93-98% Excellent
A- 89-93% Very Good
B+ 86-89% Good
B 83-86% Acceptable
B- 80-83% Poor
### Below 80% is a Failing Grade

### Carnegie Mellon University Policy on Academic Integrity

http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Academic%20Integrity.htm
Students at Carnegie Mellon are engaged in intellectual activity consistent with the highest standards of the academy. The relation -
ship between students and instructors and their shared commitment to overarching standards of respect, honor and transparency 
determine the integrity of our community of scholars. The actions of our students, faculty and staff are a representation of our 
university community and of the professional and personal communities that we lead. Therefore, a deep and abiding commitment 
to academic integrity is fundamental to a Carnegie Mellon education. Honesty and good faith, clarity in the communication of core 
values, professional conduct of work, mutual trust and respect, and fairness and exemplary behavior represent the expectations for 
ethical behavior for all members of the Carnegie Mellon community.

Policy Statement
In any manner of presentation, it is the responsibility of each student to produce her/his own original academic work. Collaboration 
or assistance on academic work to be graded is not permitted unless explicitly authorized by the course instructor(s). Students may 
utilize the assistance provided by Academic Development, the Global Communication Center, and the Academic Resource Center 
(CMU-Q) unless specifically prohibited by the course instructor(s). Any other sources of collaboration or assistance must be specifi -
cally authorized by the course instructor(s).

In all academic work to be graded, the citation of all sources is required. When collaboration or assistance is permitted by the course 
instructor(s) or when a student utilizes the services provided by Academic Development, the Global Communication Center, and the 
Academic Resource Center (CMU-Q), the acknowledgement of any collaboration or assistance is likewise required. This citation 
and acknowledgement must be incorporated into the work submitted and not separately or at a later point in time. Failure to do so is 
dishonest and is subject to disciplinary action.

Instructors have a duty to communicate their expectations including those specific to collaboration, assistance, citation and acknowl -
edgement within each course. Students likewise have a duty to ensure that they understand and abide by the standards that apply in 
any course or academic activity. In the absence of such understanding, it is the student’s responsibility to seek additional information 
and clarification.

Policy Violations
### Cheating occurs when a student avails her/himself of an unfair or disallowed advantage which includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Theft of or unauthorized access to an exam, answer key or other graded work from previous course offerings.

## 2. Use of an alternate, stand-in or proxy during an examination.

## 3. Copying from the examination or work of another person or source.

## 4. Submission or use of falsified data.

## 5. Using false statements to obtain additional time or other accommodation.

## 6. Falsification of academic credentials.

Plagiarism is defined as the use of work or concepts contributed by other individuals without proper attribution or citation. Unique 
ideas or materials taken from another source for either written or oral use must be fully acknowledged in academic work to be 
graded. Examples of sources expected to be referenced include but are not limited to:
 Text, either written or spoken, quoted directly or paraphrased.
 Graphic elements.
 Passages of music, existing either as sound or as notation.
 Mathematical proofs.
 Scientific data.
 Concepts or material derived from the work, published or unpublished, of another person.

Unauthorized assistance refers to the use of sources of support that have not been specifically authorized in this policy statement or 
by the course instructor(s) in the completion of academic work to be graded. Such sources of support may include but are not limited 
to advice or help provided by another individual, published or unpublished written sources, and electronic sources. Examples of 
unauthorized assistance include but are not limited to:
## 1. Collaboration on any assignment beyond the standards authorized by this policy statement and the course instructor(s).

## 2. Submission of work completed or edited in whole or in part by another person.

## 3. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information or materials, including graded work and answer keys from previous

course offerings, in any way to another student.
## 4. Use of unauthorized information or materials, including graded work and answer keys from previous course offerings.

## 5. Use of unauthorized devices.

## 6. Submission for credit of previously completed graded work in a second course without first obtaining permission from the

instructor(s) of the second course. In the case of concurrent courses, permission to submit the same work for credit in two courses 
must be obtained from the instructors of both courses.

Procedures for dealing with allegations of these policy violations are detailed in the university’s Academic Disciplinary Action Procedures for Undergraduate Students and the Academic Disciplinary Action Procedures for Graduate Students, which are published 
in The WORD student handbook. Periodic review of these procedures will be overseen by the Dean of Student Affairs or her/his 
designee in consultation with Faculty Senate and the relevant student governing bodies. Any amendments to these procedures are 
subject to the approval of Faculty Senate. Additional guidelines and procedures for graduate students may exist at the college/de -
partment/program level, in which case they are communicated in the college/department/program graduate student handbook.