# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Identify, students, Page, 11/16/24, Canvas, Illinois, This course, financial statements, Podcasts
**Document Length**: 2072 words

---

# CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

# HEINZ COLLEGE

Fall 2024
SYLLABUS: 90-831 A4 ADVANCED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF HEALH CARE
### INSTRUCTORS: Todd A. Nelson Andrew Donahue

Phone: 708-710-9894 708-492-3341
Email: tnelson@hfma.org adonahue@hfma.org
OFFICE HOURS: By appointment, please email tnelson@hfma.org to schedule.
# PREREQUISITES

# 90723 Financial Statements and Analysis of Companies

# COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course assumes that students have some industry literacy and have already been exposed to basic
finance/accounting principles and in-depth analysis of financial statements, but not the nuances of
health care industry financing in depth.

This course will provide students with an overview of company and business unit finances in the health
care industry in order for students to be prepared to analyze an organization’s financial position and
manage their own operational or project budgets in health care. While students will not typically
assume finance-specific roles, they need to be able to use financial information to drive decisions.
### The key components of this course include:

### *  Review and use of balance sheets, income statements, and statements of cash flows in the

health care industry
### *  Mechanisms of health care reimbursement (charges, cost accounting, prospective payment,

capitation, hospital inpatient vs. physician services, value/quality-based models and shared
savings)
### *  Managerial and strategic financing in health care: budget methodologies, revenue cycle, capital

expenditures
Page | 1

This course is a weekend micro mini course to be held remotely November 16-17, 2024, during the
Fall semester. Please see schedule of remote sessions listed below.
# COURSE OBJECTIVES

### *  Differentiate between key financial statements and the information they provide

### *  Determine an organization’s financial condition with the use of financial statements and

analysis tools
### *  Identify how strategic planning influences the budgeting process

### *  Differentiate between various methods of developing a budget

### *  Identify key components of a budget and budget variance concepts

### *  Determine the value of benchmarking to the budgeting process

### *  Identify the components of the revenue cycle

### *  Identify various metrics used to manage the revenue cycle

### *  Evaluate and prioritize budget allocation opportunities through value-based decision making

### *  Determine the methods used by healthcare organizations to fund capital expenditures

# TEXTBOOKS AND SUPPLEMENTAL READINGS

Text: There is no required text required for this course. See supplemental readings below and
Bibliography for additional learnings.
### Supplemental Readings (available on Canvas):

HFMA Q2 2024 Outlook Survey.pdf
For Profit Performance.pdf
The financial state of the not-for-profit sector.pdf
### Health System Strategy and Ratings.pdf

### Healthcare Blame Game Podcast.pdf

HFMA Podcast with Mayo CFO.pdf
### HFMA Podcast Leveraging Good Leadership.pdf

# WEEKEND SEQUENCE FOR COMPLETION OF WORK

Page | 2

### Topic Weekend Plan Class Date

### Selected Readings READ ARTICLES:

and Podcasts in HFMA Q2 2024 Outlook Survey.pdf Review Articles
### Healthcare For Profit Performance.pdf and Podcasts

prior to class on
Finance The financial state of the not for profit sector.pdf
11/16//24
### Health System Strategy and Ratings.pdf

### LISTEN TO PODCAST:

HFMA Podcast with MAYO CFO.pdf
Financial The purpose of financial accounting is to summarize financial activity in
Accounting a business in the financial statements. It provides a clear description of
Concepts fundamental accounting principles and terminology that finance
professionals need to know, a clear analysis of provider, payer and
11/16/24
physician group financial statements, as well as management and
financial reports used in healthcare.
10:00am - Noon
### Course objectives are:

### *  Differentiate between key financial statements and the

information they provide.
### *  Determine an organization’s financial condition with the use of

financial statements and analysis tools.

Self-Study - Students will use ratio analysis exercise to interpret financial health of 11/16/24
Activity healthcare organizations
Noon-2:00pm
Strategic In this course, we will link the use of financial statements, management
Financial Issues of costs, and price setting to the strategic planning and objective-setting
process of managing a healthcare business. These elements apply
11/16/24
whether the type of healthcare business is a hospital, health plan, or
physician clinic.
2:00-4:00 pm
### Course objectives are:

### *  Identify how strategic planning influences the budgeting

process.
*  Differentiate between various methods of developing a budget.
*  Identify key components of a budget.
*  Identify budget variance concepts.
*  Determine the value of benchmarking to the budgeting process.

Page | 3

The Big Picture - Health Industry Financial Impact issues of 2024 - including virtual 11/16/24
Health Finance. health, regulation, M&A, supply costs and more. This presentation ties
financial impacts and perspectives to financial performance outlook. After 4:00pm
Review lecture
Pre-Recorded
and Podcasts
### Lecture and Review Recorded Lecture and Listen to PODCASTS:

Podcasts Navigating Credit Markets in 2024 Lecture (Webinar)
before 11/17/24
session.
### HFMA Podcast Leveraging Good Leadership.pdf

### Healthcare Blame Game Podcast.pdf

Managing Financial resource management is the efficient deployment of fiscal
Financial resources. This course provides the practical know-how for productively
Resources managing financial resources.
### Course objectives are:

### *  Identify key components of revenue cycle and metrics used to

11/17/24
manage.
*  Differentiate between operating and capital expenditures.
10:00am - Noon
### *  Evaluate and prioritize budget allocation opportunities through

value-based decision making.
### *  Determine the methods used by healthcare organizations to fund

capital expenditures.
11/17/24
Group ACTIVITY Students will work on a budget exercise to develop budgeting skills
Noon-2:00pm
Looking to the Discussion of the most pressing issues from a Health Care Finance 11/17/24
Future: Value & perspective that students should understand as we look to the future –
Disruption Disruption and Market Forces Affecting Health Care. 2:00-4:00 pm
# COURSE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AND GRADING SCALE

Individual performance will be evaluated based upon the submitted article/podcast summaries, case
study, class participation and final exam. Article/Podcast summaries are worth 30%, the exercises are
worth 40% (20% each); and class participation is 30%.

Article/Podcast Summaries: These are intended to be a brief summary of your takeaways. These are
not intended to be a paper with references.

Page | 4

### Course Exercises (available on Canvas):

### *  COMPLETE: Hospital Financial Statement and Ratio Analysis

### *  COMPLETE: Capital Budgeting Group Exercise

Please upload the completed assignments to Canvas under the “Assignment” tab, being sure to include
your last name in the File Name and on your work. If you have any problems uploading, please contact
Todd Nelson (tnelson@hfma.org) for assistance. See the individual assignments for other advance
submission requirements and detailed work expectations. You should keep a copy of the case studies
for your reference during class discussion.
# GRADING

### The College operates on a 4-point grading scale as follows:

Letter Credit Toward
Grade Interpretation Points Graduation?

A+ Exceptional 4.33 Yes
A Excellent 4.00 Yes
A- Very Good 3.67 Yes
B+ Good 3.33 Yes
B Acceptable 3.00 Yes
B- Fair 2.67 Yes
C+ Poor 2.33 Yes
C Very Poor 2.00 Yes
C- Minimal Passing 1.67 Yes
### D,R Failing 0 No

### I Incomplete 0 No

# COURSE POLICIES AND EXPECTATIONS

Todd Nelson is available via email and phone for case study and other questions throughout the course
(see specific case study for appropriate faculty resource).

Students are expected to complete all assigned readings (both texts and supplemental articles) and case
studies prior to weekend class as noted in syllabus. This is imperative to ensure optimal learning and
participation in class discussions. Most importantly, students should be prepared to share their personal
and organizational experiences, issues and frustrations related to the lectures’ healthcare financial
topics during class sessions.

Page | 5

# ATTENDANCE POLICY

Class Presence and Participation. Class presence and participation points are given to encourage your
active class participation and discussion. You will be rewarded with a perfect score as long as you
frequently come to class and actively contribute to the class discussion during recitations and lectures.

Presence: Although it is not required, most students send their professor a brief e-mail to explain their
absence in advance. Students who repeatedly arrive late to the lecture or recitation will be eligible for
80% of the participation grade.

Participation: When the cases, articles or podcasts are discussed, we are less concerned with “right” or
“wrong” answers than we are with thoughtful contributions which follow the discussion and either add
to the discussion or move it in a new direction.
# PLAGIARISM AND CHEATING NOTICE

Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are taken extremely seriously.

Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or
assignment or as cheating on an examination, regardless of whether it is a take-home or in-class
examination. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the program. There are
many other ways in which a violation can occur.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and
outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized
collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for
violations is a failing grade for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such
actions may result in a failing grade for the course.
# ACCOMMODATIONS

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I
encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible.

I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that
you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the
Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Page | 6

# STUDENT WELLNESS

As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can interfere with learning, such as
strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty concentrating and/or
lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful events may diminish your academic
performance and/or reduce your ability to participate in daily activities. CMU services are available,
and treatment does work. You can learn more about confidential mental health services available on
campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling and
Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.
# DIVERSITY STATEMENT

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national
origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry,
belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others
not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at
CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence
and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we
also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a
campus community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They
contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university.

Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment
on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after
the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
Report-It online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions.

Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our campus
climate to be more equitable and just.

Page | 7

# BIBLIOGRAPHY

For additional information related to the financial management of health systems, the following
textbooks and periodicals are suggested:
Kongstvedt, Peter R. The Managed Health Care Handbook (Sixth Edition). Sudbury,
Massachusetts: Jones and Bartlett Learning, 2013
Nowicki, Michael The Financial Management of Hospitals and Healthcare Organizations (Fifth
Edition). Chicago, Illinois: Health Administration Press, 2011
### Healthcare Financial Management Journal. (Monthly publication) Downers Grove, Illinois:

### Healthcare Financial Management Association

Finkler, Steven A. Finance and Accounting for Nonfinancial Managers, Fourth Edition.

Chicago, Illinois: CCH, 2011
Page | 8