# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, support, design, this course, UML, class, English, Canvas, a facial covering, campus
**Document Length**: 1821 words

---

# Course Course Title: 95706 Object Oriented Analysis and Design
Information Class Day/Time/Location: Thu 6:30 to 9:20pm HBH 1005
Instructor: Neelam Dwivedi
Office Hours: By appointment. Please refer to Canvas home page
Prerequisites 95-712 Object Oriented Programming in Java
Description Large-scale software development has been described as one of the most difficult of human
undertakings. This course examines the reasons for the inherent complexity of software
construction, and presents structured methods to deal effectively with it. The course will focus on
the object-oriented approach for analysis and design. Students will gain an appreciation of the
difference between writing programs and doing analysis and design. Problem formulation and
decomposition (analysis) and solution building (design) will be covered. Students will work in
small groups, each group having the responsibility for analysis, design and implementation of a
software system. Case tools will be used in several stages of the development process.

Knowledge of an Object-Oriented language such as Java or C++ is a pre-requisite for this course.
### Course References:

Materials *  Software Requirements by Karl E. Weigers and Joy Beatty. 2013. 3rd ed
*  Applying UML and Patterns by Craig Larman. 2004. 3rd ed
*  The Rational Unified Process by Krutchen. 2004. 3rd ed
*  Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software. Gamma, Helm, Johnson,
Vlissides. 1995. Addison Wesley
*  http://www.utm.mx/~caff/doc/OpenUPWeb/index.htm
### Software:

*  Visual Paradigm http://www.visual-paradigm.com/download/community.jsp / Lucid Chart:
https://www.lucidchart.com/pages/edu-premium PlantUML www.plantuml.com
Evaluation The final grade will be out of 200 points. The grading breakdown is listed below. A detailed
## Method description of each of these activities is given on the next page.

### Activity Distribution Points %

Weekly self-assessments 5 points per week for 7 weeks 35 17.5%
Project deliverables 3 deliverables of 15 points each 45 22.5%
Project presentation 3 presentations of 10 points each 30 15.0%
Project peer rating 5 points per deliverable 15 7.5%
Case Studies 3 case studies for 15 points each. 45 22.5%
Class Quizzes 3 quizzes of 10 points each 30 15.0%
Total 200
Learning / *  Develop a working understanding of formal object-oriented analysis and design processes
Course *  Develop an appreciation for and understanding of the risks inherent to large-scale software
Objectives development
*  Learn (through experience!) techniques, processes, and artifacts that can mitigate these risks
### *  Develop the skills to determine which processes and OOAD techniques should be applied to a

given project, and
### *  Develop an understanding of the application of OOAD practices from a software project

management perspective
Grading Scale A+ 97-100% B+ 87 - 89% C+ 77 - 79%
A 93 – 96% B 83 - 86% C 73 - 76%
A- 90 - 92% B- 80 - 82% C- 70 - 72%
Course Graded activities
Policies &
Expectations 1. Weekly self-assessments (SA) :There is a significant part of course-content provided in the
form of videos that you are expected to watch each week. You are expected to complete
weekly self-assessments based on the video-content for which you will get two attempts. The
higher of the two scores will be considered for grading. This must be completed by before
Sunday midnight of each week. The topics in these videos and SAs will be discussed in class in
the following week.
## 2. Team Project: You will be assigned a project based on a real world problem. You will work in

a team to progressively build the OOAD artifacts for this project as per the Unified Process.

The project activities will be graded along four activites
i. Three deliverables of your OOAD model (See Project document for details)
ii. 10-minute team presentations in class for each of the deliverables submitted.
iii. Peer-rating by your team members in a survey administered after each deliverable is
submitted. This will account for your individual project participation score
iv. You will also provide feedback to your peer-teams as they present their models in
class
## 3. Case Studies: There will be three case studies assigned to you throughout the course. You will

be assigned some activity related to the case study that needs to be completed before the
due date. The specifics will vary with each case study, and will be a combination of
i. Answers to the question to be submitted individually
ii. Group discussions / presentations in class
## 4. Class Quizzes: There will be three quizzes based on the topics covered in the previous weeks.

All quizzes have to be taken in-person in the class. Trying to take the quiz remotely without
instructor’s prior permission will be considered as an integrity violation. No make-up quizzes
will be allowed unless there is an unavoidable emergency supported by documented
evidence. Job interviews do not count as an emergency.

Grades: Grade disputes, if any, must be reported to the TA or the instructor within one week from
the day of grade-distribution. Copying from any source without citation, sharing your work with
other students, or copying from other students will be considered as cheating and plagiarism and
will be addressed according to the university policies http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/.

You are responsible for being familiar with the university standard for academic honesty and
plagiarism. Please see the CMU Student Handbook for information. In order to deter and detect
plagiarism, online tools and other resources are used in this class.

Course Schedule / Topical Outline: (Subject to change as needed)
Date Topic (Reference) Planned activity
Software Development Methodologies *  Getting ready!

1. 10/24
(Krutchen Chapters. 1,2,5) *  Class discussion
### *  Project Kickoff

Requirements Elicitation
2. 10/31 *  Requirement elicitation
(Weiger Chapters 5 to 17)
------------------
### *  Class discussion

Requirements Analysis *  Case study1 (Team)
3. 11/7
(Larman Chapter 9, 13, 15, 16) *  Class quiz 1
### *  Project Presentation1 (Team)

OOAD and UML
4. 11/14 -------------------
(Larman Chapter 9, 13, 15, 16)
### *  Class discussion

### *  Class discussion

Design patterns and principles
5. 11/21 ----------------
(Gamma et al)
### *  Case study 2 (Team)

6. 11/28 No class. Thanksgiving break.
### *  Project presentation 2 (Team)

Design patterns. --------------------
7. 12/5
Test driven development, OO Metrics and wrap up *  Case study 3 (Team)
### *  Class quiz 2

## 8. TBD Finals presentation and Class Quiz 3

### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational opportunities for all students. CMU and
your instructors are committed to your success and to supporting Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and
the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is otherwise qualified shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity, solely by reason of
having a disability.

If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations
are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not
yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu .
### Academic Integrity:

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards are supported and enforced by students,
including those who serve as academic integrity hearing panel members and hearing officers. The presumptive sanction for a first
offense is course failure, accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the Academic Integrity Policy.” The standard
sanction for a first offense by graduate students is suspension or expulsion. Please see http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/
for any questions.

Cell Phones, Smartphones and other handheld wireless devices: Other than during class breaks, please silence ring tones and
refrain from engaging in calls, messaging or other use during class time.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition of concepts, presentation format, and
accuracy of information. Having done business in countries that use languages other than English, we understand that the use of
an unfamiliar language can result in unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are not critical to the overall understanding
of the information. Therefore, we will take into account your need to function in a language that may be unfamiliar to you. We
will provide feedback as appropriate if we feel that language or grammar you have used in assignments would be best if it were
configured in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

In this course, we will use the Canvas system generally to post lecture notes and related documents and to receive assignments
electronically from students. To access Canvas, go to https://cmu.instructure.com
Classroom Expectations related to COVID-19
In order to attend class meetings in person, all students are expected to abide by all behaviors indicated in A Tartan’s
Responsibility, including any timely updates based on the current conditions.

In terms of specific classroom expectations, whenever the requirement to wear a facial covering is in effect on campus, students
are expected to wear a facial covering throughout class. Note: the requirement to wear a facial covering is in effect for the start
of the Spring 2022 semester. If you do not wear a facial covering to class, I will ask you to put one on (and if you don’t have one
with you, I will direct you to a distribution location on campus, see https://www.cmu.edu/coronavirus/health-andwellness/facial-covering.html ). If you do not comply, you will be referred to the Office of Community Standards and Integrity for
follow up, which could include student conduct action. Finally, please note that sanitizing wipes should be available in our
classroom for those who wish to use them.

Take care of yourself.

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough
sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. There are many helpful resources available on campus and an important
part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is almost always
helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we
strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit
their website athttp://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help
getting connected to the support that can help.All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There
are many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help.

Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful.
4