# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Strauss, Pennsylvania, Students, Canvas, Liu, Education, Robert P. Strauss, US, the course
**Document Length**: 2332 words

---

# __________________________________________________________
# 90-817 Education Finance and Policy

Spring, 2025
### School of Public Policy and Management

The Heinz College
Carnegie Mellon University
6:00PM-9:00PM
©Professor Robert P. Strauss
www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f
rpstrauss@gmail.com
Revised November 3, 2024
NOTE: 2025 Canvas web site being revised to conform to this syllabus]
## Overview. The purpose of this Heinz public policy course is to introduce professional

master’s students to the special problems of financing regional governments in a
decentralized federal system with a special focus on k-12 education. As a public policy
course it characterizes from different vantage points the salient features of current k-12
education finance and related issues, identifies areas where there are various ideas of how
to improve or promote change, and reviews the underlying methodologies with numerous
examples of how to both justify and implement such changes in education finance and
policy.

The course is unusual in that it emphasizes both the constitutional and legal aspects of
school finance and policy and draws together through problem sets and in class examples
of the use actual school finance data maintained by the Pennsylvania Department of
Education. Also relevancy of the course is maintained via the instructor’s ongoing
research in education finance and involvement with the Pennsylvania State Board of
Education, the Pennsylvania General Assembly, the school districts of Philadelphia and
Pittsburgh on matters of school finance, teacher recruitment and retention and student
achievement.
[See http://paeducationquality.net/ and
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wP8a2VYqPcQ]
The course reviews theories of federalism from economic and constitutional
perspectives, reviews the evolution of the United States from a confederation to a
federation, examines financial and political problems associated with jointure, reviews
alternative rationales for public financing and provision of education (k-16), distressed
school systems and municipal governments, distributional effects of k-16 public
education, the use of cost-effectiveness and educational production functions, school
budgeting issues, the school property tax, school segregation (by race) in the US,
intergovernmental relations and the design of school aid formulas, the measurement and
implications of student achievement, teacher preparation and selection, and school
governance issues. These issues are examined from positive and normative perspectives,
and through the lens of economics and political economy. Class discussion examples will
be drawn not only from Pennsylvania, but from other states, and internationally.

Students taking the course are expected to be conversant in basic statistics and its
application on a micro-computer, know something about financial accounting or at least
have an interest in it, have had an introductory course in micro-economics, able to apply
statistics and economics to real world problem sets that involve the manipulation of data
and administrative records, and familiar with using Canvas to upload and download files.

Students who have had Public Finance will find taking the course more natural because
they will have learned about issues such as the proper role of government in a market or
mixed economy, the effects of different kinds of taxation on the distribution of income
and wealth, and on economic efficiency. All required reading is stored on Canvas; each
lecture session has a Module where the required readings are stored there as well as the
assigned questions.

The course is organized into a series of topical sessions, and will be conducted in
person. Students are expected to have read the required reading before class, and
prepared their answers to assigned questions. Students are also expected to own and
know how to operate an electronic calculator (other than those contained in a cell phone1)
that is capable of doing xa/b. Please be sure you have access to such a calculator for each
class and have Strauss Bucks2 available for each session as well, and as well as your
answer[s] to assigned course session questions.

Each lecture discussion session will begin with Professor Strauss providing a brief
overview and context of the topic, and then each student assigned a question (before
class) will give his/her answer in no more than 3 minutes of presentation. Other students
may then comment or ask follow up question of no more than 2 minutes by raising their
hand and being recognized by Professor Strauss; Professor Strauss may also inquire or
comment on the presentation to provide guidance.

Students presenting or commenting should refrain from
beginning any sentence with “I feel like …” since the purpose of the
course is to provide the exchange of ideas and facts, not personal
feelings per se. Students also are expected to refrain from engaging in
circular reasoning. . (See:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_reasoning )
Also, this type of pedagogy is designed to improve the oral presentation skills of
each student within a professional work environment.
1 Thanks to Christine Alagara for pointing this out in class some years ago.
2 See http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f/pf04.html.

Generally, students will find that reading the required readings and answering the
questions to be discussed at hand will enhance their understanding of the materials to be
read. Also, because the midterm and final exams will be based on the questions to be
discussed, keeping track of the reading and questions to be discussed will materially aid
in the preparation for the two exams.

Students are expected to obtain an online version of The Federalist Papers or buy a
paper-back one from such places as Amazon.com. The Library of Congress maintains an
online version at: https://guides.loc.gov/federalist-papers/full-text while Amazon sells the
Signet Press version for $7.95 (it also includes both an historical introduction and the US
Constitution): https://www.amazon.com/Federalist-Papers-SignetClassics/dp/0451528816/ref=sr_1_3?crid=2M507YGULJ4D2&keywords=The+Federalis
t+papers+paperback&qid=1640036076&s=books&sprefix=the+federalist+papers+paperb
ack%2Cstripbooks%2C56&sr=1-3
### Evaluation. Evaluation in the course is based on the following formula:

A 95-100
A- 90-94.9
B+ 85.0-89.9
B 80.0-84.9
B- 75.0-79.9
C+ 70.0-74.9
C 65.0-69.9
C- 60.0-64.9
D+ 55.0-59.9
D- 50-54.9
R < 49.9
Pass/Fail 70 or better
There will be two short essay examinations: a midterm exam on March 13, 2023 and a
cumulative final exam during finals week of May 1, 2023. The midterm, composed of 10
short essay questions, will be worth 30%, and the final exam, composed of 15 short essay
questions, will be worth 40%. There are 6 problem sets worth 4% each. Class participation
will be worth 2%. The final examination will cover the entire course, while the mid-term
exam will cover the material from the beginning of the semester up to the midterm exam. I
will be grading your exams. Note that all problem sets (except the Sim City problem set)
must be emailed to rpstrauss@gmail.com, and must be word-processed. Handwritten
problem sets will not be accepted. Problem sets handed in after the due date will get
penalized for lateness at a rate of 2% reduction in score/day late. Thus a perfectly answered
problem set worth 50 points that was 5 days late would be worth 50 x (1 - (.02 x 5)) = 50 x
(1 - .1) = 45 points.

Each course session covers a series of topics. Sessions 1-3 deal with core issues related to
US history and its (2nd) constitution, Sessions 4 deals with equal protection guarantees and
race, Sessions 5-8 with core school finance issues, and Sessions 9-13 deal with core
education issues.

Topical Outline.
### Session 1: Alternative Perspectives on Fiscal Federalism

Session 2: The American Revolution and Fiscal Federalism: Federalist Papers
Session 3: US Federal/State Issues: Commerce Clause and Other Constitutional Provisions
Session 4: US Federal/State Issues: Brown vs. Board of Education and the Federal Response
(ESEA, NCLB I, NCLB II)
Session 5: Resource Allocation in Regional Governments, School Districts, and State Aid to
Districts
Midterm Exam
Session 6: Property Taxation: Institutions, Theory, Practice, and Equity Evaluation
### Session 7: Local School and Municipal Financial Crises

## Section 8: Perspectives on Education

### Session 9: Curriculum Alignment, Coverage, Standards, Anchors

### Session 10: Student Assessment

Session 11: All about Collective Bargaining
### Session 12: All About Teachers, School Misconduct, School Governance

Final Exam
Office Hours: Mondays and Wednesdays from 5-6 PM and by appointment. I am generally
available by email and Zoom by appointment.
### The 2025 course schedule follows:

Class
Meeting Topic
January 13 Session 1: Course Overview, Buchanan & Musgrave (1999),
Alternative Perspectives on Fiscal Richard Musgrave 4.1, “Fiscal
Federalism Federalism,”
## 1.1 Centralized View James B Buchanan 4.2:”Response”;

## 1.2 Decentralized View http://www.ted.com/talks/misha_gle

## 1.3 Posner on Economics of nny_investigates_global_crime_net

Federalism works.html
### Richard Posner, Economic Analysis

### of Law, Chapter 25

695-714
### January 20 Martin Luther King Day, No Class

Session 2: The American Revolution Federalist Papers Chapters XVJanuary 27 and Fiscal Federalism: Federalist XXII; (15-22)
### Papers Federalist Papers XXIX-XLVI

## 2.1 Confederacy Problems

(29-46)
## 2.2 Federalism, US Style

(See links on Canvas to Library of
Congress Federalist Papers
February 3 Session 3: US Federal/State Issues Schoettle (2003) Chapter 4
## 3.1 US Constitution: Commerce Shaviro(2000), Ch. 3 pp 42-67;

Clause, Discrimination
## 3.2 US Federal Limits on State Joint Committee on Taxation, U.S.

### Power to Tax Congress, General Explanation of

the Tax Reform Act of 1986,
(Prentice Hall), ch. 7., pp. 11281235.

February 10 Session 4: US Federal/State Issues: Russo Chapters 1 and 15
### Brown v. Board and Federal

### Response to Brown v. Board:

ESEA, NCLB
February 17 Session 5: Resource Allocation in Charles Coe, Public Financial Management, (Prentice
Regional Governments, School Hall, 1989) Ch. 6, 156-186.

Districts
## 6.1 Public Budgeting Fisher, State and Local Finance, Chapter 11 The Budget

## 6.2 Capital Allocation Process

February 24 Midterm
### March 3-7 Spring Break

March 10 Session 6: Property Taxation Schoettle(2003), Chapter 2.

Class
Meeting Topic
## 6.1 Mechanics *J. Yinger, H. Bllom, A Borsch-Supan, and H. Ladd,

## 6.2 The School Property Tax and Its Property Taxes and House Values, (Academic Press,

Use in Education Finance in the US 1989), ch 1-3, 6,7.
## 6.3 Behavioral Effects of Property

Tax *Robert P. Strauss, “Why Call for Property Tax Relief?”
State Education Finance Communications.
### *H. Rosen and D. Fullerton, “A Note on Local Tax

### Rates, Public Benefit Levels, and Property Values.”

Journal of Political Economy (April, 1997).

Robert P. Strauss and David A. Strauss (2003), “The
### Fairness of Urban Real Estate Assessment in Four Urban

Counties,” Proceedings of the 96’th Annual Conference,
National Tax Association
### The Allegheny County Property Tax: 2 Related Studies

March 17 Session 7: Local Governmental University of Chicago Law Review 1993 Article
Financial Crises
### Debt and Capital Management by Boast and Keilin

## 7.1 A Framework for Understanding

### Municipal Default Securities and Exchange Commission, Staff Report on

## 7.2 History of New York City’s Bad Transactions in Securities of the City of New York: the

Ways Role of the City and its Officials, (Washington, D.C.
## 7.3 SEC Report on NYC August 26, 1977), Ch. 3

## 7.4 Senate Banking Committee’s

views on the NYC The Amended and Restated Agreement, November 20,
## 7.5 The Amended and Restated 1975

Agreement
## 7.6 School Districts in Crisis: Pittsburgh Financial Crisis

School district in Detroit
### E. Cohn, The Economics of Education, Revised Edition

(Oxford: Pergamon Press, 1990), preface, Chapter 1-4,
March 24 Session 8: Perspectives on 10-11
Education
## 8.1 Human Capital Theory Steven D. Gold, David M. Smith, Stephen B. Lawton and

## 8.2 Alternatives Andrea c. Hyary (editors). Public School Finance

## 8.3 School Aid Formulae Per Se Programs of the United States and Canada: 1990-1

(American Education Finance Association and the Center
for the Study of the States), Section 2.

March 31 Session 9: Curriculum Alignment, ESA of 1964
### Coverage, Standards, Anchors NCLB

### How People Learn, Ch 6,

Class
Meeting Topic
## 9.1 ESEA/NCLB Enhancing Professional Practice, A Framework for

## 9.2 Professional Practice Teaching, pp 1-5, 60-78.

## 9.3 National and Pa Math Standards PA Math Teaching Standards from PDE Website (put on

## 9.4 How People Learn Blackboard) http://www.pdesas.org/standard/Views/

NCTM Teaching Standards
http://standards.nctm.org/document/chapter1/index.htm
April 7 Session 10: Student Assessment, Educational and Psychological Measurement and
Per Se: Evaluation, Ch 1, Ch 4, Ch 5 skip 5.16-5.19
## 10.1 Testing,

## 10.2 Fair Tests,

## 10.3 Test Design,

## 10.4 Interpretation,

## 10.5 Types of Tests,

## 10.6 Value-Added and Interpretation

April 14 Session 11: Teacher Certification, Russo Chapter 9; Russo Chapter 10; Supreme Court
Employment, Contracts; Terms and decision
### Conditions of Teacher Employment

April 21 Session 12: Impact of Teachers, Strauss and Strauss, Teachers vs. Nurses
School Safety on Learning, and Strauss, Strauss, Gorman, and Liu, “Classroom Teacher
Hiring Practices in Pennsylvania: 1997 and 2006,”
### Balter and Duncumbe, Hiring Practices in New York

Strauss (Chapter 7 of monograph on Teacher Quality and
### Teacher Selectivity in Pa)

Strauss, Congressional Testimony
Strauss Who Gets Hired to Teach in Pa?
### Strauss and Vogt, Teacher Retirement Decision

### Strauss, Chen and Liu, Teacher Voluntary and

Involuntary Withdrawal
### Strauss and Liu, Double Dipping

School Governance
Severino and Strauss
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f/severino_strauss_f
inal_april_2005.pdf
### April 28 Final Exam

Problem Sets.—problem sets are to be worked on individually or in groups as indicated
below. No group may be larger than 3 students, and Professor Strauss must be notified by
email of the group composition. Students shall put their name on their problem set. Solo
means you do it yourself, Group means you can do it with others; however, the group size
is no more than 5 students in each group. Regarding working Solo, you can gossip about
the problem sets in terms of where to find data, but not to do each others calculations.

Problem 1: What’s happening with state and local debt? Solo
Out 1/13/2025, Due 2/3/2025 before class. (Each student is assigned a state to analyze;
please see the assignment list on Canvas under Assignments).

Problem 2: Would A Payroll Preparation Tax be Constitutional in Pennsylvania?

Out 2/3/2025, Due 2/10/2025 before class Solo
Problem Set 3: Has Segregation Increased in the Pittsburgh Public Schools?

Out 2/10/2025, Due 2/24/2025 Group
### Problem 4: Budgeting Scarce Resources: Sim City

Out 2/24/2025, Due 3/10/2025 before 5pm Group
Problem 5: Analysis of Property Tax in Allegheny County and Analysis of PSSA Scores
Group Project
Out 3/10/2025, Due 4/7/2025
Problem 6: Determinants of Student Level SAT scores in Pennsylvania and Reliability,
Validity, and Value Added Modeling (Group Project) Out 4/7/2025, Due 4/28/2025
8