# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday, RWJ, Module, RWJ_1, Canvas, Friday

###, Tasks, Requirement, 24
**Document Length**: 1522 words

---

# 90-747A Cost-Benefit Analysis: A Capital Budging Approach
### Heinz College, Carnegie Mellon

Spring, 2025 MWF 3:30-4:50 PM Pittsburgh Time
HH1208 In Person
©Professor Robert P Strauss
www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f
rpstrauss@gmail.com
Revised Course Outline: 1/8/2025
This public policy course provides a systematic framework, capital budgeting, for the evaluation
of private-sector projects and also public sector projects; the latter builds on the former, and
introduces issues of externalities, interdependencies between primary and secondary markets for
goods and services, and the social rate of discount. Two courses, Public Finance, taught in the
Fall by Professor Robert Strauss, and Cost-Benefit Analysis: A Capital Budgeting Approach
taught in the Spring by Professor Robert Strauss, may be viewed as providing a conceptual and
practical framework for those Heinz students seeking careers in the public sector, or those parts
of the private sector that routinely deal with the public sector. This course strengthens each
student's ability to compare resources devoted to providing current capital projects, and those
proposed to new capital projects to understand how various stakeholders both pay for and receive
benefits from them over time
The course is divided into 3 modules. In Module 1 (weeks 1 - 4), the course develops the
essential techniques of private sector evaluation principles with a focus on long-lived capital
projects and how such projects are typically financed through retained earnings, and bond and
stock markets. In Module 2 (weeks 5 - 6), special problems which arise in the evaluation of
public sector projects are discussed; a variety of evaluation techniques and applications
especially suited to public sector projects are then examined. In Module 3 (week 7), actual costbenefit studies in the policy areas of sports stadiums, elderly driving, and education, are
examined.

Learning Outcomes
### In this course the student:

## 1. Will learn how to think clearly about time and money.

## 2. Will learn how to measure clearly private and public sector costs and benefits

## 3. Will learn why market structure matters in understanding prices facing private and

public sector decision makers.
## 4. Will learn how to decide whether or not to “build a bridge” or “repair a bridge.”

### 1 | P age

Prerequisites Description
Some high school algebra; preferably introductory courses in basic statistics, basic
microeconomics, some understanding of income and balance sheet arithmetic.

Note: students desiring to confirm their financial accounting/reporting skills should consider
doing SolidFooting during the Xmas break. It can be obtained for $29 and is widely recognized
as the premier interactive learning tool, and used in top 10 undergraduate business
programs.See https://solidfootingaccounting.com
### Required student purchases in place by 10AM January 13, 2025:

Requirement 1: a rental of the E-book version of Ross-Westerfield-Jaffe, Corporate Finance,
McGraw-Hill, 13th edition. (RWJ) and
Requirement 2: a [paid] subscription to the McGraw-Hill Connect learning/evaluation
environment for this E-book. It is strongly recommended that you also purchase the loose leaf
version of the book. The Connect learning environment contains extensive student learning tools
and the evaluation environment (problem sets and examinations) that will be used in the course.

The approximate price of the: i] book rental and 2] Connect environment through a third party
are $100, and 3] a 3 hole paper version of the entire book for $30. NOTE: you are able to obtain
1 & 2 free for 2 weeks and will be charged by Student Accounts for the purchase.

The Canvas web site for this course has a link to McGraw Hill to effect the above.

Requirement 3: access to a financial calculator which can be put on your cell phone for free, or
purchased. Said calculator must be able to do exponential arithmetic such as e(a/b) or (1+r)(a/b) as
well as compute the natural logarithm of any [positive] number. For Android based cell phones,
go to https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=uk.co.nickfines.RealCalc and download the
free financial calculator as 20 million others have done.

Requirement 4: Access to a laptop computer that is capable of browsing the internet and has
installed and running a current version of MS Office which includes Excel and MS word.

Should you be curious about how capital budgeting operates in the defense portion of the US
federal budget, take a look at A YouTube Video on Innovation (or not) in the aircraft carrier
business:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbYqlbZumc0
### 2 | P age

Lecture Session (LS) and Topics, Chapter Readings from RWJ, Home Work (HW) and
coverage
Note: you are expected to have read and understood the chapter that is being lectured about
before the lecture begins. Students will be randomly chosen in class to answer questions from
Professor Strauss about the material under discussion.

LS_1: Introduction to Corp & Public Finance, RWJ_1 HW 1 out (covers chapters RWJ 1-3)
### LS_2: Financial Statements & Cash Flow, RWJ_2

### LS_3: Financial Statements Analysis, RWJ_3,

### LS_4: Discounted Cash Flow I, RWJ_4

LS_5: Discounted Cash Flow II, RWJ_4, HW 2 out (covers chapter 4)
### LS_6: Net Present Value and Other Investment Rules, RWJ_5

LS_7:, Valuing Bonds, Stocks, Chapter 8,9 HW 3 out (covers chapters 5,8,9)
MIDTERM EXAM (Covers Lectures 1-7)
### LS_8: Making Capital Investment Decisions, RWJ_6

LS_9: Long Term Financing, RWJ_15, HW4 out (covers chapter 6, 15, 27)
### LS_10: Cash Management, RWJ_27

### LS_11: Special Issues of Public Capital Budgeting Analysis I, B_1,B_2

Social accounting and consumer/producer surplus; taxation and dead weight loss, social rate of
discount
HW 5 out (covers session 11, 12)
LS_12: Special Issues of Public Capital Budgeting Analysis II, B_2, B_3
Primary and secondary market structures, distribution, Positive/negative externalities, shadow
prices
LS_13: Case Studies: Elderly driving, Lead in Gasoline
FINAL EXAM (Covers Lectures 8-13)
### 3 | P age

Evaluation Weights and Grading Scale (in terms of % correct).

Evaluation Weight A 95-100 %
Class Attendance 5% A- 90-94.9 %
Midterm 30% B+ 85-89.9 %
Final 30% B 80-84.9 %
5 Problem Sets 35% B- 75-79.9 %
C+ 70-74.9 %
C 65-69.9 %
C- 60-64.9 %
D+ 55-59.9 %
Total 100% D 50-54.9 %
D- 45-49.9 %
F <44.9 %
Pass/Fail >=70 %
Attendance rules: student must be in class at beginning and remain throughout
the class to earn points. Skipping, arriving late, not being class continuously
d uring the class leads to a “failed LS attendance day.”
For each failed LS attendance day, a student loses 1%.
### 4 | P age

90-749A Course Calendar and Tasks
LS_ denotes lecture session; RWJ_ denotes the chapter in the required RWJ E-textbook to be
read before that lecture session; and HW_ denotes homework (out). Handouts and case studies
will be on Canvas under separate modules as will lecture-specific power points.
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### January 13 14 15 16 14

LS_1, RWJ_1,
### Tasks: HW_1 out Review_1

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### January 20 21 22 23 24

LS_3,
RWJ_3,
### Martin Luther HW_2 out

### King Day No HW 1 due

Tasks: Class LS_2, RWJ_2 midnight
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### January 27 29 30 31

Review_2
### LS_5, RWJ_4, HW_2 due

### Tasks: LS_4, RWJ_4 HW_3 Midnight

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### February 1 2 3 4

### Tasks:

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### February 7 8 9 10 11

### LS_7, RWJ_8,9, HW_3 Midterm

### Tasks: LS_6, RWJ_5 HW_4 due Exam

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### February 14 15 16 17 18

Review_4
### LS_9, RWJ_15, HW_4 due

Tasks: LS_8, RWJ_6 HW_5* midnight
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### February 21 22 23 24 25

Review_5
HW_5* due
Tasks: LS_10, RWJ_27 LS_11, Handout_1 midnight
### 5 | P age

Tentative 90-747B Course Calendar and Tasks; dates to be revised.

LS_ denotes lecture session; RWJ_ denotes the chapter in the required RWJ E-textbook to be
read before that lecture session; and HW_ denotes homework (out). Handouts and case studies
will be on Canvas under separate modules as will lecture-specific power points.
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### March ‘24 11 12 13 14 15

### Student LS_1, RWJ_1, Office

### Tasks: HW_1 out LS_2, RWJ_2 Hours Review_1

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### March ‘24 18 19 20 21 22

Review_2,
### Student LS_3, RWJ_3, Office HW 1 due

Tasks: HW_2 out LS_4, R WJ_4 Hours midnight
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### March ‘24 25 26 27 28 29

Review_3
HW_2 due
### Student LS_5, RWJ_4, Office Sunday

### Tasks: HW_3_out LS_6, R WJ_5 Hours Midnight

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### April ‘24 1 2 3 4 5

### Student LS_7, RWJ_8,9, Office HW_3 Due

Tasks: HW_4_out Midterm Exam Hours Midn ight
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### April ‘24 8 9 10 11 12

Review_4
HW_4 due
### LS_9, RWJ_15, Office Midnight

Tasks: LS_8, RWJ_6 HW_5* Hours Carn ival
### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### April ‘24 15 16 17 18 19

LS_11,
B_1 B_2
Student Review 5-6:30PM HW_5* due
Tasks: LS_10, RWJ_27 midnight
### 6 | P age

### Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday

### April ‘24 22 23 24 25 26

LS_12 JP
### Tasks: B-3 B_4 LS_13, Case Studies Review

April ‘24 29
Final Exam
1PM
rps_90749A_syllabus_11_22_2024.docx
### 7 | P age