# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy, the United States, China, one, December, Practice, this class, Videos, first
**Document Length**: 8184 words

---

### Policy Topics: Sustainable Development

Carnegie Mellon University
### Heinz College of Public Policy

### 444 North Capitol St., NW, Suite 399

Washington, DC 20001
Fall 2023 Mini-Course - 6 Units
October 21 – December 9, 2024
Mondays 6:00 pm to 8:50 pm EST
### Consultation Hours: By Appointment

Instructor: Ryan McCannell (he/him/his)
ryantogo71@gmail.com
# 703-801-2033 (mobile)

Ryan’s Bio
Course Description
Since the dawn of the 21st century, the world has experienced tremendous advances in human
development and technology, while simultaneously suffering from continuous upheaval. This class
examines how those intertwining trends have affected the lives of billions of humans and the
natural environment – and how their impacts are most likely to reverberate in the future.

The United Nations projects that by 2050, the global population will reach 9.7 billion people.1 To
feed an increasingly affluent and populous world, the international community will need to
produce more food despite the finite limits of available water and arable land. Some of these
tradeoffs will come at the expense of existing natural systems, even as the planet is undergoing
vast biological and physical changes due to climate change and environmental degradation.

As we plunge into these topics in the fall of 2024, the future of the United States and its role on
the world stage seem deeply uncertain. From 2017 to early 2021, Donald Trump’s presidency and
“America First” approach to global leadership overshadowed many aspects of broad-based
international cooperation. Since then, President Biden’s administration has attempted to reverse
many of those trends despite the increasingly bitter U.S.-China competition, the Russia-Ukraine
war with its accompanying disruption to global food and energy supplies, and the complex,
seemingly endless conflict between the State of Israel, stateless Palestinians, and other players in
the Middle East and beyond.

Over the same period, the COVID-19 pandemic and its accompanying economic and social
reverberations have reversed years of development gains. Democratic backsliding and rising
autocracy threaten basic freedoms around the globe, while the misuse of information sows doubt
1 United Nations, “Global Issues: Population,” https://www.un.org/en/globalissues/population#:~:text=The%20world%20in%202100,and%2011.2%20billion%20by%202100, accessed on August
27, 2023.

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
about what sources can be trusted. Innovations such as artificial intelligence and green
technology seem promising to some, threatening to others, and likely to create disruptions both
positive and negative in the years to come.

All these factors dramatically complicate the challenge of achieving sustainable development –
that is, making sustainable and equitable improvements in human well-being without irreparable
damage to the natural environment – while simultaneously making it more urgent than ever.

Why Take This Course?

This course examines a few critical questions for you as young leaders. What motivations drive
the international development community to transfer billions of dollars’ worth of aid each year?

Why do ordinary Americans (and other nationalities) routinely give generously to better the lives
of strangers on other continents? What role do history, economics, race, and politics play in
sustainable development? How do various leaders, advocates, spoilers, and opportunists wield
and withhold power in the global system? And most importantly, is our highly intelligent yet
fractious human species even capable of transcending our current differences to achieve a better
future for everyone?

The path we will take in exploring these questions is to analyze and interrogate the rapidly
changing world of global development, with a focus on how to achieve development outcomes
without wrecking the planet. The challenge we will explore together is how to design a 21st
century strategy in an environment of competing priorities and paradigms, complex problems,
diverse constituents, and multiple domestic and international stakeholders.

The course requires no previous experience in, or substantial prior knowledge of global
development. Upon completion, students should be able to demonstrate: 1) a much broader and
deeper understanding of sustainable development issues and stakeholders; 2) analytical skills to
serve more effectively as a policy-maker or influencer; and 3) subject-matter expertise in at least
one sustainable development challenge and the solution(s) needed to tackle it.

Course Calendar
All class periods are in-person (as of this writing, and subject to change per CMU and/or DC
policies in the event of another resurgence of COVID-19), and will take place at the Heinz College
Washington, DC Office on Monday evenings, 6:00 pm to 8:50 pm EST.
### October 21 October 28 November 4 November 11

Sustainable Origins and Legacies of Critical Thinking about The U.N. Sustainable
Development Global Development: Development: Power, Development Goals:
Fundamentals The Western Aid Model Privilege, and Belonging Global, National, and
Local
### Select a Sustainable Discussion of Policy

Development Goal or Pitch and Memo SDG briefing paper due
issue area to track Assignment before class
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
### November 18 November 25 December 2 December 9

The People’s Republic of Conflict Prevention and Action, Activism, and POLICY PITCHES
### China: A New Global Stabilization Imagining the Future: and Wrap-Up

Development Model Where Do We Go from
### and Player Here? Final Policy Memo due

December 12@Discussion board blog 11:59pm
posts due before class
### Tracking Sustainable Development Goals and Other Issue Areas

### The United Nations Sustainable

Development Goals (SDGs) are a
useful menu for describing
most, but not all, of the issue
areas related to development.

We will use the SDGs
throughout the course as a
rubric for exploring sustainable
development topics, but we’ll
also add conflict prevention
and stabilization, which have
become increasingly relevant to
sustainable development since
the SDGs were created in 2015.

Keeping track of all 17 SDGs plus this additional issue area can be mind-boggling. Thus, during the
first class session, each student will select an issue area that interests her/them/him to
concentrate on for the remainder of the course. This will be “your Goal” to track, and the lens
through which to focus your attention as we read, view, and discuss sustainable development in
general. Come to class prepared to share your perspectives on readings, videos, and current
events in the context of “your Goal.”
### More Than Just Data

“They have the guns. We have the poets. Therefore, we will win.” – Howard Zinn
Last but not least, you will discover, as we unpack the cerebral-sounding topic of “sustainable
development,” that we are likely to delve into issues that invite controversy, reveal differences of
opinion, touch on our core beliefs, inspire art and poetry, stoke outrage, and excite passions
among all of us. After all, development focuses on the human condition in 2024, with all its
defects, opportunities, and vulnerabilities. This includes the historical forces and contemporary
political, economic and social systems that determine the distribution of resources and power.

These are life-or-death issues. They affect us all and shape our respective world views.

As students in a program that accentuates the use of data to inform and solve policy problems, it
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
can seem that a sober, well-reasoned argument supported by accurate information is sufficient to
carry the day. A moment of reflection about the shape and direction of our contemporary world
reveals this to be untrue. To be influential in shaping policy, you must also keep in mind the
power that abstract ideas, morals, emotions, and basic human psychology can have in persuading
individuals, groups, movements, and entire nations to stake out positions on sustainable
development challenges. In the margins of this brief survey course, we will explore the role that
humor, data visualization, art, poetry, and social media play in shaping public opinion and
communicating policy positions in memorable, often visceral ways.

Grading
### Grades will be based on four elements:

## 1. Discussion Boards / Blog Posts – 20% of total

Before the first class session, I will establish some discussion boards on Canvas to invite
conversation about various sustainable development related topics and themes. Each discussion
board will have a set of instructions and an example of an appropriate post to emulate. Students
should post a total of four brief submissions (250-500 words each) to any of the discussion boards
during the first seven weeks of the mini-course time frame. You can submit these posts one by
one or all at once, but the final post is due by the beginning of class on December 2.

Please include an embedded link to at least one outside source, and use your post to reflect your
own thoughts and opinions in relation to that source material. Your post will be available for other
students (and me, of course!) to review and add comments. The writing style need not be formal,
but please use proper spelling, grammar and punctuation. Please note I am open to the use of
Generative AI for this and other assignments, with restrictions and guidelines as noted in the
“course mechanics” section.

In my experience, students usually enjoy this type of assignment more – and suffer from less stress
overall – when they provide posts methodically between class periods or “front-load” them in the
first few weeks of class. However, you have the freedom to do whatever suits your learning style
and allows you to achieve balance in other areas of your life.

Grading Rubric: I will grade each of the four posts at five points each (hence 20 points total), so
long as they are
1) provided on time;
2) fall within the correct word length;
3) have relevance to the themes of the course;
4) include links to relevant content; and
5) have very few or no spelling and grammatical errors.

It is not unreasonable for students who go beyond these requirements to expect extra credit, but
please discuss with me first if you want to do that.
## 2. Sustainable Development Challenge Briefing Paper: 30%. This paper is due before the start

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
of the November 11 class period. Please select a real-world sustainable development
challenge affecting human communities and/or the natural world, related to the SDG or issue
area you selected in our first class session on October 21. It can be in any country (or
countries) you choose and represent a threat, a missed opportunity, or some combination.

Please identify the SDG or issue area in your writing so I can keep track!
### Answer the following questions:

 What is the challenge and why is it occurring? Please provide evidence and/or a brief
vignette to illustrate the challenge.
 What trends can you identify relative to this challenge? Are things getting better, worse, or
staying the same? Can you cite projections about where the issue will be at some future
date (e.g, by next July, or 2030, or 2100)?
 Who (or what) is negatively affected by this challenge? Does anyone benefit from the
status quo or the trends you cited? How do you know?
 What resources are aligned to address the challenge? What resources oppose it?
 How widely known is this issue? What can be done to raise awareness?
 Why does this issue matter to you personally?

The paper should be 3-5 pages, double-spaced and submitted in Word format. Please reach out to
me if you have any questions or want to talk through any ideas before submitting the paper. You
can also use generative AI to brainstorm ideas as per the guidance in the “course mechanics” part
of the syllabus; check that out for more information on writing standards and grading policies.
### Rubric for Grading the Briefing Paper

Grading Elements Excellent (100%) Acceptable (75%) Needs Improvement
(50%)
Does the paper’s The paper adequately The paper omits or The paper omits
content meet the addresses the does not fully cover multiple major
objective of the elements outlined in an element of the elements of the
assignment? (12 the bullets above assigned scope, is less assigned content, is
points) within the page limit, than a half-page too more than a half-page
using appropriate long or short, and/or shorter or longer than
sources to bolster key fails to provide a required, and/or has a
arguments. citation to where pattern of insufficient
needed to support a citations and
key argument. evidence.

Is the paper’s style The author states key The author’s The author’s writing
and perspective themes clearly and arguments do not style obscures key
persuasive and succinctly, leading follow a logical flow. arguments.
authoritative? (12 readers logically from Some points are Information is
points) the summary redundant. There is presented repetitively
statement through an uneven quality or at random, without
the key arguments to among the summary, a logical flow. The
logical and relevant key arguments, and paper does not reflect
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
recommendations. conclusions, but the basic conventions for
paper communicates formal writing
the main points. (summary, argument,
conclusion).

Is the paper correct in Spelling and grammar Occasional errors Significant or
terms of spelling, mistakes are minor or weaken the repeated errors
grammar, and non-existent; citations presentation of the distract readers’
citations? (6 points) follow proper format. material and create attention from the
surmountable barriers content or fail to cite
to readers’ attention sources accurately
and access to source and accessibly.
data.
## 3. Policy Pitch and Memo: 10+30 = 40%.

The Policy Pitch assignment involves two parts: a five-minute presentation to the class on
December 9 (10 percent of total grade), and the submission of another 3-5 page paper in the form
of a memorandum to persuade a policy maker to take action on the sustainable development
challenge you identified in the earlier briefing paper. Please assume the policy maker will have
read your briefing paper, to avoid repetition for this assignment.

The policy memo will be due by 11:59 pm on December 12, which provides an opportunity to
incorporate feedback on the in-class pitch, if desired.

Both the oral and written presentation should demonstrate how you, as a Heinz College student,
can combine public policy acumen and use of data and analysis to persuade and influence decision
makers to support your conclusions. Please provide:
 The name of the policy maker or organization who will receive the memo;
 A single, “bottom-line-up-front” summary (no more than two sentences!) of the
challenge and your recommended action or actions;
 Your rationale for position presented, describing the need, interest, and efficiency
considerations that combine to form good sustainable development policy;
 Assessment of potential push-back (which will likely emerge from need, interest, or
efficiency concerns – just choose one).

In terms of grading the Policy Pitch, I will award two points for each element successfully covered
during the five-minute period, plus one point for style of presentation (including length), and one
point for Q&A. That equals 10 points total.
### Rubric for Grading the Policy Memo

Grading Elements Excellent (100%) Acceptable (75%) Needs Improvement
(50%)
Does the paper’s The paper adequately The paper omits or The paper omits
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
content meet the addresses the does not fully cover multiple major
objective of the elements outlined in an element of the elements of the
assignment? (12 the bullets above assigned scope, is less assigned content, is
points) within the page limit, than a half-page too more than a half-page
using appropriate long or short, and/or shorter or longer than
sources to bolster key fails to provide a required, and/or has a
arguments. It citation to where pattern of insufficient
elaborates on the needed to support a citations and
previous assignment key argument. Some evidence. Papers that
without being unnecessary repeat verbatim the
repetitive. repetition may be earlier assignment fall
present. into this category.

Is the paper’s style The author states key The author’s The author’s writing
and perspective themes clearly and arguments do not style obscures key
persuasive and succinctly, leading follow a logical flow. arguments.
authoritative? (12 readers logically from Some points are Information is
points) the summary redundant. There is presented repetitively
statement through an uneven quality or at random, without
the key arguments to among the summary, a logical flow. The
logical and relevant key arguments, and paper does not reflect
recommendations. conclusions, but the basic conventions for
paper communicates formal writing
the main points. (summary, argument,
conclusion).

Is the paper correct in Spelling and grammar Occasional errors Significant or
terms of spelling, mistakes are minor or weaken the repeated errors
grammar, and non-existent; citations presentation of the distract readers’
citations? (6 points) follow proper format. material and create attention from the
surmountable barriers content or fail to cite
to readers’ attention sources accurately
and access to source and accessibly.
data.
## 4. Class Participation – 10% of total

You and your classmates (and your instructor!) will get the most out of the class if you come
prepared and fully participate in the discussions. Think about the tough questions you want to
discuss, the issues that are raised by the assigned readings, blog posts, and current events. As
noted, there will also be some small-group work and a few outside speakers with whom to engage.

I hope that you will participate actively, but respectfully, in classroom discussions on these heady
topics. In doing so, please do not take for granted that everyone in the class shares or supports
your perspective. Everyone should feel safe and encouraged to share your truths and opinions as
you experience them. I believe that much about our nation can be repaired if Americans re-learn
the skills and advantages of civil discourse among those who may disagree, yet are willing to see
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
the humanity and validity of others. Please use this class to practice those skills. The future of our
country and the planet depends on them.

In terms of grading class participation, I will assign ten points to every student. I will only deduct
points because of three factors:
1) Chronic attendance problems, taking into account reasonable accommodations,
uncontrollable things like weather events, and the exigencies of the COVID-19 safety and
wellness guidance;
2) If I sense you are regularly coming to class unprepared, having neglected readings and
other requirements that are not graded in other rubrics; or
3) Any major conduct issues that disrupt the class or disrespect fellow students, staff,
faculty, or guest speakers.

If I feel the need to deduct points, I will discuss it with you privately, as soon as possible, to try to
resolve the issue without penalty.
### Course Readings and Videos

Let’s be honest. This course competes for your time and attention during a busy, exciting and
sometimes stressful period of your academic career at Heinz College. Additionally, each of you
brings unique skills and knowledge that will likely supplement or exceed the best-planned syllabus.

For that reason, I have tried to be as selective as possible in the course readings and to integrate
videos as appropriate alternatives. Part of this strategy is a recognition that sustainable
development is evolving in real time – and that implies the need to add a few brief articles here
and there to update information or enrich the class discussion.

In exchange, I ask you to please read, view, or listen to all the assigned materials, as they will
enhance the quality of time together.

Readings as assigned in the syllabus will be posted on Canvas. Please check each week as the
readings included in the syllabus may change; I will let you know if and when they do.

Also, I’ve worked with the CMU Media Services team to create a channel for all videos that do not
have organic captioning, for those who need that accommodation. It’s available here:
https://mediaservices.cmu.edu/channel/90-896%2B-%2BMcCannell/351942402. Per their
instructions, “In order to view the videos the student will need to login with their Andrew ID
(upper right corner). Next they can click on the video in the playlist. To ensure the captioning is
on make sure the ‘CC’ button is enabled at the bottom of the video player. It's on when there isn't
a slash through it.” Please report any problems to me as soon as possible so that we can ensure
everyone gets access to these resources.
### Guest Speakers, Lectures, and Small-Group Work During Class

Except for the first couple of class periods, which require laying some common foundation in the
subject matter we are exploring, I intend to limit formal lectures in which I do most of the talking.

Rather, my aim is to facilitate discussions with several guest speakers and among students,
prompted by questions and comments on the guest speakers’ presentations, as well as the
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
assigned readings, videos, and current events. To keep things interesting and fun, we will break
into small groups when possible to discuss the materials and share ideas collaboratively.

Class-by-Class Descriptions
### Class 1: October 21 - Sustainable Development Fundamentals

This class provides the basic foundations and terminology to inform the rest of the mini-course.

After student and faculty introductions and some initial housekeeping items, I will introduce the
basic concepts of sustainable development and invite students to share what they know already
from personal experience or other relevant coursework.

Also during this class, each student will select or be assigned one of the SDGs or other issue areas
(conflict and security and artificial intelligence) to track and write about during the remainder of
the course.

I strongly recommend downloading - and even printing out! - this handy one-page graphic of the
SDGs. We will all refer to it often over the coming weeks.
### Readings:

## 1. Nicolas Kristoff, “Cheer Up! The World Is Better Off Than You Think,” New York Times,

December 31, 2022.
## 2. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, “International aid rises in 2023 with

increased support to Ukraine and humanitarian needs,” April 12, 2024. Take a quick look at
the levels of “official development assistance” as defined by the traditional Western donor
countries.
## 3. Compare this collection of recent articles from around the world on the U.N. Human

Development Index (for 2021-22).
a. For some global context, please see this infographic from the Economist (September 8,
2022), as well as local news stories from
b. Mike Kalumbi, Malawi24.com (September 24, 2022),
c. Paul Icamina, Malaya Business Insight (September 25, 2022), and
d. Virginie Mangin, SwissInfo.ch (September 8, 2022).
## 4. Stephanie Thomson, “What are the Sustainable Development Goals?,” World Economic Forum,

September 16, 2015.
### Videos (~10 minutes total viewing time):

## 5. Hans Rosling 200 Countries, 200 Years, 4 Minutes - The Joy of Stats, British Broadcasting

Corporation, November 26, 2010, (4:47 in length).
## 6. Centre for Collective Action Research, Gothenburg, Sweden, Collective Action 101, December

14, 2018, (5:55).

Class 2: October 28 – Motivations, Origins and Legacies of Global Development: The Western
Aid Model
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
The global effort to raise human living standards, traditionally led by the United States and its
Western allies, has induced a complex mix of successes, missed opportunities, and unintended
consequences as the field interacts with geopolitics and economics.

This lesson provides a crash course in the ends, ways, and means of international development,
with some reflections on how these efforts resonate domestically in the United States.

The first half of the class explores the most basic question about international development: why
do we do it in the first place? The “we” in the previous sentence includes almost all of us. If you
or your family have ever given funds to a religious organization, the International Red Cross, or
other relief groups; paid taxes in the United States or another donor country; served in a
humanitarian assistance or disaster relief operation; volunteered for a cause or advocacy group
with links to developing countries; or even donated used clothing and other household goods,
then most likely you have contributed to international development. What factors prompted you
to do so?

By examining what motivates nations, organizations, and individuals to provide aid to societies
outside their borders, this lesson gives strategic leaders insight into the culture of the international
development industry and profession.

During the second half, I will discuss the history and legacy of international humanitarian and
development assistance and some of the “ways and means” that development practitioners
employ. Over the course of the last 75 years, donors have tried out numerous approaches to
implementing assistance programs with varying degrees of success.
### Readings:

## 1. Ryan McCannell, “International Development 101 for Civil Affairs Personnel: Part One -

Why Aid?” Civil Affairs Association, 2019.
## 2. Oxfam, Foreign Aid 101, read pp. 4-13, skim the rest.

## 3. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, December 10, 1948.

## 4. Bill and Melinda French Gates Foundation, The Race to Nourish a Warming World,

September 2024. Please explore the latest estimates of progress across several
(unfortunately not all) SDGs. The main intro section, on exploring the linkages between
malnutrition and climate change, is also inspiring to read if the subject interests you.
### Videos (~30 minutes total viewing time):

1. “Tell ‘Em Joe Sent You,” The Truman Project and Truman Center, February 5, 2013 (1:15).

2. “Bono from U2 on Generosity,” September 24, 2015, (2:16).

3. “An Olive Peace,” USAID, May 25, 2016, (3:01).

4. “An Introduction to Amartya Sen’s Development as Freedom,” Macat Multimedia Series,
March 10, 2018, (3:33).

5. “China-proposed GDI promotes inclusive, balanced global development: Pakistani expert,”
New China TV, June 21, 2022, (2:01).

6. “The Skate Brothers,” USAID, May 26, 2016, (3:24).

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
7. “Greta Thunberg's full speech to world leaders at UN Climate Action Summit,” September
23, 2019, (5:19).

8. “Shahara Knows Her Rights,” USAID, April 18, 2016 (4:07).
## 9. Fox News: “Fmr. Marine on Low-Cost Way to Break Cycle of Poverty,” FOX News, April 4,

2011, (2:38).

10. “Kids Discuss America's Global Leadership,” U.S. Global Leadership Coalition, n.d., (1:50).

Class 3: November 4 - Critical Thinking about Development: Power, Privilege, and Belonging
The international development industry emerged from the colonial and Cold War period and has
continued to be dominated by White, Western, predominantly male subject-matter experts, and a
conceptual distinction between the “developed” and “developing” world. The growing backlash
from aid critics invite us to think about how sustainable development challenges reflect power and
privilege – from the global to the local level.

Like war and politics, international development is fundamentally a human endeavor, with its own
sources of friction, fads, and failures. This lesson explores some of the imperfections of
international assistance as described by critics of the development line of effort. In general, aid
skeptics tend not to question the need for international assistance, but rather the motivations of
aid donors and recipients, as well as the ways and means that aid gets delivered. They ask: who
gets to participate in determining the future of humanity, and the distribution and use of the
planet’s scarce resources? Who is excluded from those decisions and why? Why do many of the
decision makers resemble your instructor: white males over 50 years of age? These critical voices
exert pressure on aid officials to transform the power relationships that still reflect the attitudes,
assumptions, and access conferred on aid providers since the colonial period.

To explore these areas with us, we are excited that Hadeil Ali (she/her/hers) is joining us as a
guest speaker to discuss her work, and other recent efforts, to make international development
more inclusive. As you listen to Hadeil’s conversation with Ambassador Geeta Rao Gupta, please
listen for a few key messages that are key themes of this course:
### - The use of data for advocacy

### - Elements of identity (gender, ethnicities, religion, national origin, class/social capital, and family

background) and how those have provided rich insights in her work
### - Connections between gender equality and broader human rights and democracy trajectories

In addition, the policy memo due from each student will be outlined during this class.
### Readings and Videos:

## 1. Shannon Paige, Time to Decolonise Aid: Insights and Lessons from a Global Consultation

(London: Peace Direct, 2021). Please read executive summary, as well as pp. 33-41.
## 2. Sarika Bansal, “As travel opens up again, aid voluntourism needs to get real,” The New

Humanitarian, June 14, 2021.

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
## 3. Courtney Martin, “The Reductive Seduction of Other People’s Problems,” Bright, June 11,

2016.
## 4. Hadeil Ali and Rafi Demerath, “Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: The Forgotten Lessons of

the UDHR,” Center for Strategic and International Studies, November 30, 2023.
## 5. Hadeil Ali, “Championing Gender Equality with Amb. Geeta Rao Gupta,” Center for

Strategic and International Studies, September 10, 2024 (36:04), as well as the
Ambassador’s official bio.

Class 4: November 11 – The U.N. Sustainable Development Goals: Global, National, and Local
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as the Global Goals, were adopted by the
United Nations in 2015 as a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure
that by 2030 all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The SDGs were conceived at the global level
and adopted by national governments, but can also provide a common framework and vocabulary
for regions, cities, organizations, firms, and individuals to plan and take action on sustainable
development.

In September 2015, the United Nations General Assembly approved the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development, which established an ambitious set of goals for achieving progress in
human development, climate change, and social justice in a prescribed 15-year time frame. The
17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), also known as the “Global Goals,” represent a new
approach by the international community to encourage and facilitate broad-based progress across
multiple sectors in every country, regardless of its socioeconomic status. This class coincides with
the halfway point of the SDG period, a fitting time to take stock of progress and shortcomings.

The SDGs reflect an optimistic perspective on
development, informed by the inputs of
millions of people worldwide. They highlight
the tremendous progress made in improving
the quality of human life during the past 200
years, and in particular since the end of World
War II. Building on this record, achieving the
SDGs would address the most serious
inequities that exist across the globe,
including extreme poverty, food insecurity,
illiteracy, and inadequate health care.

The Global Goals should also matter to Heinz
College students because Carnegie Mellon University has adopted them as a reference point for its
own efforts to support a 21st Century approach to sustainable research, learning, and action.

CMU’s recently completed Voluntary University Review, the first of its kind anywhere in the world,
gauges the extent to which the CMU community aligns education, research, and practice with the
Global Goals.

Each summer since 2015, various U.N. member states present Voluntary Reviews as a formal part
of the SDG process during an event known as the High Level Political Forum, convened by the
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
United Nations. Drawing inspiration from this process, dozens of cities worldwide (led by New
York City) have conducted Voluntary Local Reviews using the SDGs as a convenient framework for
planning, civic engagement, accountability, and measuring progress on making urban areas more
livable and equitable.

We are thrilled to welcome Alex Hiniker (she/her/hers), one of the key architects of both the New
York City and CMU Voluntary Reviews, as a guest speaker to kick off a discussion in class about
these developments.

Also, note that SDG briefing papers are due before class begins.
### Readings and Videos:

1. “We the People for the Global Goals”, United Nations, September 2015, (2:58).
## 2. The White House, U.S. Strategy on Global Development, September 2024. Note the references

to SDGs throughout this very recent (some would say "very late") policy document.
## 3. U.S. Agency for International Development, “The U.S. Commitment to the Sustainable

Development Goals,” August 30, 2023. Please take a look at the progress USAID is making on
your selected SDG.
## 4. Alexandra Hiniker, “How to Align City Strategies with the SDGs,” Brookings Institution Center

for Sustainable Development, July 2021.
## 5. Carnegie Mellon University Sustainability Dashboard, 2024 (current website). Please explore,

with attention to the SDG you are tracking, if applicable.
o Again, what does this have to do with sustainable development?
o How does your life as a Heinz School student relate to this VUR? Is it relevant? Does it
motivate you (or confuse or discourage you)?

Class 5: November 18 – The People’s Republic of China (PRC): A New Global Development
Model and Player
The emerging role of the PRC as an international donor creates challenges and opportunities for
aid recipients and other aid donors alike.

The PRC’s January 2021 white paper on international development opens with a bang: “China is
the largest developing country in the world.” This statement immediately strikes a contrast
between the PRC and traditional donor countries, many of which oppressed parts of what is now
the developing world for centuries as colonizers or regional hegemons. In addition, the PRC’s
historically unprecedented success in lifting hundreds of millions of people out of poverty in the
space of a few decades is both an enviable accomplishment and an unfinished project. This
perspective creates a context in which the PRC’s emphasis on mutual aid between equal partners
overshadows distinctions between official development aid, commerce, and economic coercion.

Traditional donors including the United States have been quick to point out the flaws of the PRC’s
approach to development and describing their own approaches in correspondingly beneficent
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
terms. As competition among global powers increases, it is unsurprising that sustainable
development has become another aspect of the struggle.
### Readings:

## 1. The State Council Information Office of the People’s Republic of China, China’s International

Development Cooperation in the New Era, January 2021. Please read the Preface and Section
One (approximately ten pages).
## 2. USAID, “Combatting the Generational Challenge of Chinese Communist Party Aggression:

Testimony of Michael Schiffer, USAID Assistant Administrator for Asia, before the House
Foreign Affairs Committee,” February 28, 2023.
## 3. International Institute for Sustainable Development, SDG Knowledge Hub, “BRICS Countries

Expand Partnership for Sustainable Development,” August 30, 2023.
## 4. Ammar A. Malik, et al., “Banking on the Belt and Road: Insights from a New Global Dataset of

13,427 Chinese Development Projects: Executive Summary,” AidData at William and Mary,
September 29, 2021.
## 5. Ian Urbina, “The Smell of Money,”(print edition title; online version is titled “Fish Farming Is

Feeding the Globe. What’s the Cost for Locals?”), New Yorker, March 1, 2021. Note there is
also an audio version available that takes about 30 minutes to listen to. Both are available via
the link.
## 6. Peter Hartcher, “China could be the first country to get old before it gets rich and the

implications are profound,” Sydney Morning Post, May 18, 2021.
### Class 6: November 25 – Conflict Prevention and Stabilization

Helping countries and communities prevent conflict and promote stability is one of the most
challenging aspects of sustainable development – particularly as our world becomes more
dangerous and disordered.

Development economist Paul Collier is known for saying that "war is development in reverse." Yet
the United States and its allies have become accustomed to deploying warriors, diplomats, and
development workers side by side in countries as diverse as Bosnia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Haiti, Niger,
and Somalia. What makes recovering from conflict so difficult? What is the appropriate role of
the international community in preventing, suppressing, or mitigating violent conflict? What have
recent reconstruction and stabilization efforts taught us?
### Readings:

## 1. John F. Sopko (Special Inspector General for Afghan Reconstruction), What We Need to

Learn: Lessons from Twenty Years of Afghan Reconstruction, August 2021. Please read the
Executive Summary: pp. VII to XIII.
## 2. Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), More Effective

Development Co-operation and Fragility: DAC Perspectives on Effective Development Cooperation, September 20, 2023, pp. 3-15.
## 3. U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and Promote Stability, 2020, pp. 1-10.

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
## 4. Stanislava P. Mladelova, When Rambo Meets the Red Cross: Civil-Military Engagement in

Fragile States, (London: Rowman & Littlefield, 2024), pp. 46-55.

5. “Building peace, from the bottom up: A Q&A with Séverine Autesserre,” The New
Humanitarian, May 13, 2021.
## 6. Obi Anyadike, “The changing face of peacekeeping: What’s gone wrong with the UN?” The

New Humanitarian, July 9, 2024.

Class 7: December 2 - Action, Activism, and Imagining the Future: Where Do We Go from Here?

The SDGs invite us to envision the world in 2030 and choose a better future. The SDGs provide a
menu that informs activism from grassroots to global arenas.

This class explores the essential role of political and social activism as a driving force behind
sustainable development goals. Why do some social movements achieve transformative change,
while others fail or fade away? What techniques favor or limit success in political activism? Is
non-violence still relevant and even achievable in today’s polarized domestic political climate and
a world where authoritarian regimes seem to be gaining the upper hand? What is our
responsibility as global citizens to lead, participate in, or become responsive to activism around
sustainable development goals we care about?

For this class, we will use a domestic U.S. example of activism and policy making, focused on the
politics of climate change at the federal level during the past several decades. We are honored to
have the researcher and author Chelsea Henderson (she/her/hers) as a guest speaker for this
class.
### Readings and Videos:

## 1. Marge Piercy, “The Low Road,” a poem performed by Staceyann Chin, September 26, 2011,

(1:52).
## 2. Duncan Green, How Change Happens, pp. 1-27 (2016). Note this is also covered in this TEDTalk-like video, “How Change Happens (and How to Make It Happen) with Duncan Green,” May

20, 2016, (39:49).
## 3. Erica Chenoweth, “The success of nonviolent civil resistance: Erica Chenoweth at

TEDxBoulder,” November 4, 2013, (12:33).
## 4. Chelsea Henderson, Glacial: The Inside Story of Climate Politics, (Nashville: Turner Publishing

Company, 2024), pp. 287-302 and 339-340.
## 5. Jennifer Szalai, “Shrink the Economy, Save the World?” New York Times, June 8, 2024.

6. “Three degrees of global warming is quite plausible and truly disastrous,” The Economist, July
24, 2021.
## 7. Noah Smith, “You're not going to like what comes after Pax Americana,” Noahpinion Blog,

October 7, 2023.
### Class 8: December 9 – Class Presentations and Wrap-Up

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
We will devote this class to students’ making their policy pitches, which will take the place of a
final exam. Students should come prepared to make a five minute presentation followed by up to
three minutes of question/answer. This presentation should ideally be based on your first draft of
your five-page memo that will be due by 11:59 pm on December 12 (i.e., the Thursday following
this final Monday class). Power Point presentations are encouraged but only if they are sent to
Robin Cole to upload by noon on December 9.
### Resource for Project Preparation:

## 1. Carmine Gallo, “Richard Branson’s 5 Elements of a Good Pitch,” Forbes, October 23, 2012.

Course Mechanics
### Grading, Writing and Citation Standards at a Glance:

### Grading Scale:

A, A- 100-90% (excellent)
B+,B, B- 89-80% (good)
C+, C, C- 79-70% (satisfactory)
D 69-60% (passing)
R 59% and below (not passing)
Open to use of Generative AI with Restrictions/Guidelines
You are welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this class. These
programs can be powerful tools for learning and other productive pursuits, including completion
of some assignments in less time, helping you generate new ideas, or serving as a personalized
learning tool. Additionally, you will almost certainly use these technologies in your career.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic
integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. If you use one of these generative AI tools
to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your
work. In practice, cutting and pasting content from any source without citation is plagiarism.

Likewise, paraphrasing content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using
any generative AI tool without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The
university’s policy on plagiarism applies to all uncited or improperly cited use of work, whether
that work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI.
### In this class, you may use generative AI programs to:

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
### - Brainstorm new ideas

### - Develop example outlines or approaches to your work

### - Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem

### You may not use generative AI programs to:

### - Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component

without quotations and a citation
### - Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation

### - Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself

### - Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following

provided guidance
### - Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when

really it is not.

Finally, it is important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with
incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate
contradictory statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and
can sometimes integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate
outputs. Image generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

While you may use these tools in the work you create for this class, it is important to note that you
understand you are ultimately responsible for the content that you submit. Work that is
inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be penalized.

Citation guidance: If you are quoting someone, you must indicate that you are indeed quoting
someone. Please use footnotes rather than end notes. Footnotes should be placed at the end of a
sentence after the period.2 For an article: First name last name, “Title of Article,” Journal, volume,
(Date), available at: add link here. For a book: First name last name, Title of Book (Place:
Publisher, year), pages x-y. Make sure to use Chicago citation style. If you have any doubts about
this citation style, please consult https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html.

Papers that do not properly quote or leave out citations will be penalized.

Writing Tips: Begin with a coherent topic sentence and avoid long paragraphs. (Policymakers are
busy with little bandwidth; memos should be crisp, clear, precise, and concise.) Use adjectives
sparingly. Avoid the passive tense when possible. Grammatical and spelling errors will negatively
affect your grade. Support your arguments with evidence.

Format: 1-inch margins, 12 pt. font, double-spaced. Please include page numbers and spell-check
your writing assignments before sending.

How to Submit: Please submit writing assignments on or before the due dates in Microsoft Word
format via Canvas or directly to me at rmccanne@andrew.cmu.edu with a copy to
2 Like this!

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
ryantogo71@gmail.com. Late assignments will be penalized. If you send me the document via
email, please include a subject line containing relevant information (first one pager, final paper,
etc).

Emergencies and planned absences: Attending class and active student participation is essential
to the success of the course. If for any reason, you anticipate missing a class, please contact me
ahead of time. If you have an emergency and can alert me via email before or during class, please
do so.

Cheating and Plagiarism: Do writing assignments alone. Collaboration—writing or editing
someone else’s paper—is considered a violation of academic integrity, although I welcome any
opportunity to discuss paper topics in advance to refine or reorient them toward success.

Students who plagiarize will receive zero points for the assignment and consequently will fail the
class. The instructor will make use of all available University policies. All cases of plagiarism will be
reported to the Dean and Program Chair.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities: If you require accommodation due to a disability,
please inform me as early in the semester as possible. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations, but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, please contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity
can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color,
national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed,
ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with
many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to
our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because
diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge
our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of
building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional.

They contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the
university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or
hostile treatment on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment
of the incident or after the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the
following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
Report-It online anonymous reporting platform: username: tartans / password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following
Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our
campus climate to be more equitable and just.

Finally… please take care of yourself.

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs
and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your
goals and cope with stress.

Food Security: SDG 1 is succinct: Zero Hunger. That includes all of us in this course, particularly
during this time of high inflation. If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about
food, there are resources on campus that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to
schedule an appointment: cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu, or 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)
Academic Assistance: All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone.

There are many helpful resources available and an important part of the graduate school
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often
helpful. A particularly useful resource is the Student Academic Success Center (SASC). SASC
programs to support student learning include:
o Academic Coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group
workshops to help undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for
success. Academic Coaching assists students with time management, productive learning
and study habits, organization, stress management, and other skills. Request an initial
consultation here.
o Peer Tutoring – Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support
related to their coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through
regularly scheduled open tutoring sessions during the fall and spring semesters. Tutoring
by appointment consists of ongoing individualized and small group sessions.You can utilize
tutoring to discuss course related content, clarify and ask questions, and work through
practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being supported by Peer
Tutoring.
o Communication Support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication
consulting as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual
communication in texts including IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral
presentations, posters and visual design, advanced research, application materials, grant
proposals, business and public policy documents, data visualisation, and team projects.

Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate students from any discipline at
CMU. Schedule an appointment (in-person or video), attend a workshop, or
consult handouts or videos to strengthen communication skills.
o Language and Cross-Cultural Support – This program supports students seeking help with
language and cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual
and group sessions. Students can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning
expectations and strategies for clear academic writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency,
and more. Make an appointment with a Language Development Specialist to get
individualized coaching.

Fall 2024 Sustainable Development Policy and Practice
Dealing with Stress: If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life
events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is there to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their
website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/ Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family
member you trust for aid in getting connected to the support that can help.
20