# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, games, Saturday, AI, 2:30pm
Friday, Intellectual Property, Persia, plagiarism, Heinz College, an assignment
**Document Length**: 2223 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course The Business of Gaming

Information Course Number: 93-857 Semester Credit Hours: 4, Class Meetings: 4
### Instructors:

Holly Newman Email: holly@2063productions.com
Bill West Email: jbmmwest@yahoo.com
Saturday, 11/9 at 2:30pm
Friday, 11/15 at 2:30pm
Saturday, 11/16 at 2:30pm
Friday, 12/13 at 2:30pm
*Syllabus subject to change and readings will be assigned closer to the date to ensure current issues are
involved.

Description This four-week class will focus on the business aspects that relate to the gaming industry. This industry has
grown quickly in the last 25 years. The gaming industry has a current valuation of $385 billion and
projections indicate it will surpass $522 billion by 2027 (Statistica, 2023). Games have emerged as a leading
source of commercial entertainment – in content development, distribution and the licensing of its IP.

The course will focus on the ways in which its creative and business practices are both unique, and also share
common characteristics with other forms of screen-based entertainment.
### The course will focus on the following key areas:

### - Through a historical lens, the evolution of the games industry, business models, and how Games

evolved over the decades.
### - The game publishers, and an overview of the key companies and competing business strategies,

including game genres, key titles/franchises, management of developer relationships, and the
publishers’ relationships with licensors and licensees (primarily vis-à-vis the motion picture
business).
### - The production process: Covered material will include: the game development process from

inception through release – including visual and character development, level design, play testing,
level testing, coding, game engines, and animation with a focus on working in a distributed
development model with global partners.
- The lexicon and how to effectively communicate with buyers and sellers of Intellectual Property.
- Attracting, engaging, and retaining talent. Building teams and working with external development
partners.
### - The future of the game business and an overview of current trends including streaming, the death of

physical retail, VR &AR, E-Sports, freemium, paid models, and the impact of subscription models
to the greater gaming ecosystem.

### Learning/ By the end of this course, students will be able to:

Course
### Objectives* Learning Objective How Assessed

Speak literately regarding exploitation of Final in Class Presentation
intellectual property to and from the game
business.

List and describe the production and distribution Final Written Presentation
pipelines relevant to a game project.

Understand the use of games to engage, leverage Class Discussion/Final Written Presentation
and extend the consumer’s relationship with
intellectual property.

Look at the commercial potential of Intellectual Class Discussion
Property migration between games and film as
well the game industry’s role in platform
agnostic content.

Consider gaming influence on other media arts Class Discussion
Develop an appropriate gaming vocabulary Final in class presentation/ Final Written
Presentation
Discover effective ways to examine business Class Discussion
policy and practices at gaming companies
### Evaluation* The focus of the grading will be divided in the following areas:

Method
Class process, participation, attendance, and development 20%
Elevator Pitch 35%
Final Project 45%
Class Class participation (which includes your General Attitude, Communication Skills, Organizational Skills and
Participation Creativity and Innovativeness) is important in this class because in the real world there are many group dynamics
Rubric and meetings that will require your input in the room and on your feet—as a writer, producer, agent or executive.

The industry is a collaborative medium and in order to be successful you will need to have the ability to think on
your feet, present your ideas articulately and succinctly and contribute to group brainstorming sessions. You will
also need to give and receive critiques with diplomacy and grace. Our assessment of you will reflect all of these
aspects of participation in addition to professional presentation, enthusiasm, improvement throughout the course
and punctuality.
### A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and always contributes to regularly and regularly but regularly but
and the discussion by raising sometimes rarely never
thoughtful questions, contributes to the contributes to the contributes to
Quality analyzing relevant issues, discussion in the discussion in the the discussion
building on others’ ideas, aforementioned aforementioned in the
introducing original ideas, ways. ways. aforementioned
synthesizing across ways.
discussions, expanding the
class’ perspective, and
appropriately challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading
Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) F a i l i n g
Course No books are required; however, the following are useful if you’d like to learn more.

Materials 1) The First Quarter: A 25 -year History of Video Games by Steven L. Kent
(Required http://www.amazon.com/First-Quarter-25-year-HistoryText) Video/dp/0970475500/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&s=books&qid=1293466501&sr=1-2
2) Game Over: How Nintendo Zapped an American Industry, Captured Your Dollars, and Enslaved
### Your Children by David Scheff - Random House

http://www.amazon.com/Game-Over-Nintendo-American-Industry/dp/0679404694/ref=pd_cp_b_3
3) Masters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an Empire and Transformed Pop Culture by David
Kushner Random House http://www.amazon.com/Masters-Doom-Created-TransformedCulture/dp/0812972155/ref=pd_sim_b_4
4) Jacked: The Outlaw Story of Grand Theft Auto by David Kushner
http://www.amazon.com/Jacked-Outlaw-Story-Grand
Theft/dp/0470936371/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1359033423&sr=1-1&keywords=jacked
5) Killing Monsters: Why Children Need Fantasy, Super Heroes, and Make-Believe Violence by Gerard Jones
http://www.amazon.com/Killing-Monsters-Children-Make-Believe3

Violence/dp/0465036961/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1359033568&sr=11&keywords=killing+monsters+why+children+need+fantasy
Blogs and https://venturebeat.com/category/games/
Websites http://www.deconstructoroffun.com
https://www.thefourthcurtain.com
http://www.gamesindustry.biz/
http://www.escapistmagazine.com/
http://www.polygon.com
http://www.kotaku.com
http://www.joystiq.com
http://www.metacritic.com
http://www.theesa.com
https://www.gamesradar.com/
https://www.vulture.com/
Suggested A partial list of influential games, no need to play, but for those who are interested, a lot is written on-line
Game List about each one. It is good to be at least familiar with most of these games.
### *  Among US *  Medal of Honor (the first one)

### *  Angry Birds *  Metal Gear Solid

### Assassin's Creed: Brotherhood *  Midnight Club: Los Angeles

### *  Astrobot *  Minecraft

### *  Batman: Arkham Asylum *  Myst

### *  Blade and Sorcery *  Need for Speed: Hot Pursuit

### *  Call of Duty: Modern Warfare *  Off the Grid

### *  Candy Crush Saga *  Pac Man

### *  Clash of Clans *  Parappa the Rapper

### *  Command and Conquer *  Pokemon Go

### *  Cut The Rope *  Pong

### *  Deer Hunter *  Portal

### *  Doom *  Prince of Persia: Sands of Time

### *  Dota 2 *  Puzzle and Dragons

### *  Elden Ring *  Rage of Bahamut

### *  Elder Scrolls: Skyrim *  Resident Evil

### *  Everquest *  Resident Evil 7: Biohazard (PSVR)

### *  Fall Guys *  Retrobowl

### *  Farmville *  Roblox

### *  Final Fantasy VII *  Shadows of the Colossus

### *  Form (Vive VR) *  Slay the Spire

### *  Fortnite *  Space Marine II

### *  Game Dev Tycoon Street Fighter

### *  God of War *  Super Mario Bros

### *  Gran Turismo 5 *  Tetris

### *  Grand Theft Auto III *  That Dragon Cancer

### *  Guitar Hero *  The Hunger Games Adventures

### *  Half Life *  The Sims

### *  Helldivers *  Tomb Raider

### *  Ico *  Ultima Online

### *  Infinity Blade *  Uncharted 2: Among Thieves

### *  Karateka (Apple 2 emulated on line) *  Until Dawn

### *  Kerbal Space Program *  Warcraft

### *  League of Legends, *  Wii Sports

### *  Life is Strange *  Witcher 3

### *  Madden Football (any year) *  Wolfenstein 3D

### *  Mafia Wars

Suggested Sorry, some of these are not great movies, but you should see what Hollywood does to games
Movies
## 1. Assassin’s Creed

## 2. Borderlands

## 3. Doom

## 4. Fallout (Series)

## 5. Five Nights at Freddy’s

## 6. Lara Croft: Tomb Raider

## 7. Mortal Kombat

## 8. Prince of Persia: Sands of Time

## 9. Resident Evil

## 10. Silent Hill

## 11. Sonic the Hedgehog 2

## 12. Super Mario Bros

## 13. The Last of Us (Series)

## 14. Uncharted

## 15. Warcraft

### These movies are very informative and could be helpful:

1) Free to Play: The Movie (https://youtu.be/UjZYMI1zB9s)
2) From Bedrooms to Billions (iTunes)
3) Indie Game: The Movie (Netflix, https://youtu.be/GhaT78i1x2M)
4) Once Upon Atari (https://youtu.be/ylHHv4C1JnQ)
5) Video Games: The Movie (Netflix and iTunes)
Course
Outline:* Class 1 – Saturday, 11/9 at 2:30pm
### Topic History of Games and Overview of the Industry

- What is a game? Gamification of the world
- Who are the Players? What are the important issues and trends?
- Gaming Vocabulary.

Class 2 – Friday, 11/15 at 2:30pm
Topic How games are made (from ideation to completion)/ Relevance of Intellectual Property
### - How Intellectual Property is platformed in games and migrated to other media

and vice versa.
- How to use IP from games in other media and from other media in games.
- Production focus - how games differ in terms of production than film, tv etc.
- Working with Talent - How to effectively build a world class team.
### - The Business side – what you need to do legally to move IP around between the

media.

Class 3 – Saturday, 11/16 at 2:30pm
Topic Today– a look at how quickly things are moving.
- How is history repeating itself?
### - High level business trends (rise of digital, streaming, location-based gaming)

### - Understanding product launch and virality

### - E-sport introduction

### - Impact of Globalization

Class 4 – Friday, 12/13 at 2:30pm
Topic The Future
### - Streaming

### - E-sports

### - Presentation of Elevator Pitch

Plagiarism Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious
and cheating matters. Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
notice violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take‐home as well as in
class examinations. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM
Program and Heinz College.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

### *  Plagiarism (explained below)

### *  Submission of work that is not the student’s own

### *  Submission or use of falsified data

### *  Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment

### *  Use of a stand‐in for an exam

### *  Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination

### *  Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an

assignment or exam
*  Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by
an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
### *  Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or
Footnotes including AI. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea
derived from the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s
work and is thereforeequally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that assignment.
### *  The assignment in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending

student’s assignments included in grade calculations.
*  The points for that essay zero (0) will be factored into the grade.
*  The cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade.
*  A cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly.
### *  Cases of cheating and plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe

penalties may be imposed, up to and including expulsion from Heinz College.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and outside the
classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized collaboration) is obviously
discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade for
the assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing grade for the
course.
### Course ABSENCES/ TARDY:

Policies & We only have a short time together, so please do your best to be present and be ready to work. Should you
Expectations have any problems, please contact me prior to class.

Artificial In this class, you are welcome to use generative AI programs such as ChatGPT or DALL-E.
### Intelligence Suggested uses include:

Policy: *  Brainstorm new ideas
### *  Develop example outlines or approaches to your work

### *  Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem

### You may not use AI to:

### *  Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without

quotations and a citation
### *  Generate content that is not paraphrased without a citation

### *  Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself

### *  Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following provided

guidance.
### *  Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really it is

not
### If you use AI:

*  You must acknowledge the use of AI tools within your work.
### *  You should recognize that large language models often provide incorrect information, fake citations,

contradictory statements or incorporate plagiarized materials
7