# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Les Paul, Steve, Les Paul's, Option, Kevin, AI, Los Angeles, 80 %, .mp3
**Document Length**: 2352 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course Les Paul: A Journey Through Music and Innovation

Information Course Number: 93.881 Semester Credit Hours: 1 unit Fall 2024. Pass/Fail
Class 1: Friday, November 6 2:30pm -5:30pm
Location: MEIM: LA
Class 2 & 3: Saturday, November 23 2:30 -8:00pm
Location: The Les Paul Studio at United Recording 6050 Sunset Blvd, Los Angeles, CA 90028
Instructors: Kevin Stein kevin#@kevinstein.com Steve Rosenthal Magicshopny@gmail.com
Description Recorded music has existed for 165 years, producing remarkable artists, engineers, and technicians, but
few true inventors. Les Paul stands out as a visionary who invented the modern recording studio,
introducing multi-track recording, digital delay, reverb, and echo. He also created the electric pickup,
leading to the first solid-body electric guitar.

Without his innovations, iconic works like The Beatles’ Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band,
Legendary Guitarist, Eddie Van Halen, Pro Tools, and Garage Band might not exist. Despite receiving
numerous honors and awards throughout his lifetime, including being named the 18th best guitarist of all
time by Rolling Stone magazine, Les Paul is among the few artists to have a permanent exhibit at the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame. Additionally, he is the only individual to be inducted into both the Rock and Roll
Hall of Fame and the National Inventors Hall of Fame.

This course explores Les Paul’s transformative contributions and artistic achievements. Alongside his
partner Mary Ford, Paul had over 33 Top 20 hits across Jazz, Pop, Country, and R&B. Despite his
unmatched influence, many remember him primarily as a legacy artist.

Through lectures at the MEIM, Los Angeles campus, and a hands-on session at The Les Paul Studio at
United Recording in Hollywood, students will experience Les Paul's original mixing board and engage
with top studio producers. This course is designed for both music enthusiasts and anyone interested in the
history, innovation, and technology of modern music.
### Learning/Course The following objectives are related to the course:

Objectives
Course Objectives Assessments
1.Understand Les Paul's biography, including his *  In class discussions
early life, career milestones, and key
collaborations.

2.Recognize the technical innovations introduced *  In class discussions
by Les Paul, including the solid-body electric *  Reflection paper
guitar and multitrack recording.

3.Appreciate Les Paul's contributions to the *  Music Choice Assignment
music industry, highlighting his influence on
generations of musicians and producers.

4.Gain an understanding of Paul's recording *  Reflection paper
techniques, utilizing his original mixing board to *  Music Choice Assignment
apply theoretical knowledge in a real-world
setting.

### The focus of the grading will be divided in the following areas (choose one of the assignments below):

Evaluation Method
Reflective Paper (Option 1) or 80 % Due Sunday Nov 17 9:00pm
Music Choice Multi-track Recording 80 % Due Sunday Nov 17 at 9:00 pm
Project (Option 2): or
Music Choice: Audio Effect 80 % Due Sunday Nov 17 at 9:00 pm
Experimentation (Option 3)
### Class Participation and Process 20 % N/A

Suggested Texts: There will be handouts uploaded to box related to the class)
Suggested 1. Music Radar Interview (2009): This classic interview with Les Paul, conducted by Mick Taylor,
Viewings: covers his early life, musical achievements, and legacy. It offers a personal glimpse into his
thoughts and experiences shortly before his passing https://www.musicradar.com/news/les-paulclassic-guitar-interview
## 2. Fresh Air with Terry Gross (1992): This interview on NPR's Fresh Air provides an engaging

conversation with Les Paul, exploring his career and contributions to music and technology
https://www.npr.org/transcripts/111888401?ft=nprml&f=111859824
## 3. RØDE Microphones Interview (2006): In this interview, Les Paul discusses his early

inspirations and innovations with Peter Freedman, providing a candid look at his thoughts on the
audio industry . https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g5WfinFkYFY
## 4. Les Paul - Chasing Sound (2007): This feature-length documentary, part of the American

Masters series, provides a comprehensive look at Les Paul's life and career. It includes interviews
with notable musicians like B.B. King, Bonnie Raitt, and Jeff Beck, and features extensive
archival footage and performances https://www.amazon.com/Paul-ChasingSound/dp/B000QGE856
## 5. Les "The Wizard of Waukesha" Paul(1979) This documentary includes interviews and

performances by Les Paul, along with contributions from other musicians like Rick Derringer and
Mike Bloomfield. It provides historical context and personal anecdotes that highlight his journey
and innovations https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wNAPCvaYWSs&t=72s
## 6. CNBC Interview (1991): This interview features Les Paul discussing his inventions and their

impact on the music industry, providing a historical perspective on his
contributions https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nw52Q1AxNRI&t=65s
For your upcoming In Studio Class, you'll have the opportunity to apply some of Les Paul's innovative
Assignments techniques or write about a similar historic figure who had a similar impact on a field or industry.

While you are welcome to multiple assignments, you must at least choose at least one assignment below.
### Historical Analysis Paper (Option 1) :

o Focus: Choose a historic figure in any profession or field (including the music industry)
whose accomplishments and impact on an industry or business had a similar significant
long-term influence that Les Paul's innovations have had on the music industry.
o Word Count: Your paper should be a minimum of 1500 words (approximately 4 pages)
and follow all APA guidelines. Please number your pages and turn in as a word
document
o Cover Page: A separate cover page should be included. The cover page should state the
following call centered
### Class: Les Paul: A Journey Through Music and Innovation

Title of your paper (you decide)
### Instructors: Kevin Stein and Steve Rosenthal

Date
o References: Please add APA references as needed
o Illustration or Photo: Please add one illustration or photo about your subject or related
to their accomplishment within the document (does not count towards the 1500-page
count)
Rubric
### CONTENT, LOGIC AND CLARITY AND

# ORGANIZATION TONE

The extent to which paper/outline is clear, easy
The extent to which the paper/outline to understand, and thoughtfully put together.
demonstrates a coherent content, structure and *  Language is specific and clear
flow. *  Author’s point of view is clear and specific
### *  Addresses ALL of the above questions *  No typos or grammar problems

### *  Is structured in an effective, clear manner

### *  Maintains logical categorization

50 50
### Possible Points Possible Points

### Multi-track Recording Project (Option 2):

o Focus: Experiment with the recording technology that Les Paul invented.
o Action: Record a short piece of music (1-2 minutes) using no more than 4 tracks.
o Explore: Experiment with overdubbing techniques. Try to recreate some of the layering
effects used by Les Paul and Mary Ford.
o Delivery method: Please send a link to your final work (wav files or .aiff files or .mp3)
to Kevin and Steve and copy Mary Ryan who can put it in box for us
o Written support: Send Kevin and Steve a word document the following information
o a). Music title. b) What format did you use? (wav files or .aiff files or .mp3) c)
Running time d) A sentence or two about your process E) Any take-aways from the
project you’d like to share.
### Audio Effect Experimentation (Option 3:

o Focus: Utilize at least three different audio effects
o Action: Create a recording of any kind that utilizes at least three different audio effects
(e.g., echo, reverb, pitch shifting).
o Explore: Some options to experiment a) Take an existing movie scene or trailer and add
audio effect to the piece (e.g., echo, reverb, pitch shifting). b) If you created a trailer for
the AI class, feel free to use that trailer and then add audio effects to the trailer (e.g.,
echo, reverb, pitch shifting) c) Take a pre-existing song and add audio effects to it. d)
find an existing video and reshape the tone of the video by adding audio effects to the
piece.
o Delivery method: Please send a link (wav files or .aiff files or mp3 to your final work to
Kevin and Steve and copy Mary Ryan who can put it in box for us
o Written support: Send Kevin and Steve a word document the following information
(email is fine)
o a). Project title: Audio Effect Experimentation b) What format did you use? (wav files or
.aiff files or .mp3) c) Running time d) A short explanation of how each effect was
achieved. e) Explain how it relates to Les Paul's pioneering work. f) Any take-aways
from the project you’d like to share –“this was fun… this was frustrating… here is why.”
### Grading for Class Participation

Class Participation
### Rubric A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and always contributes to regularly and regularly but regularly but
and the discussion by raising sometimes rarely never
thoughtful questions, contributes to the contributes to the contributes to
Quality analyzing relevant issues, discussion in the discussion in the the discussion
building on others’ ideas, aforementioned aforementioned in the
synthesizing across ways. ways. aforementioned
readings and discussions, ways.
expanding the class’
perspective, and
appropriately challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Class 1: November 8th 2:30 – 5:30pm
MEIM Center
### Topic Ø Introduction and Early Life

### Ø Evolution of Recording Technology

### Ø Historic Recording Studios

### Ø Les Paul's Innovations

### Ø Performance and Collaboration

### Ø Guitar Innovation and Design

### Course/Topical Ø Legacy and Impact

### Outline: Ø Required Projects

Ø Learning Resources
Class 2 & Class 3: TBD 2:30 – 8:00pm
6050 Sunset Blvd, Los Angeles CA 90028
Topic Ø Tour of United Recording Studio – Its history and the set-up of a
studio
Ø The historic importance of the Les Paul recording studio -. Why
the Les Paul Foundation selected this space based on Les and
Mary’s Hollywood career.
Ø The original Les Paul Console -logistics on the restoration project
and journey to Hollywood
Ø Examples of his original mixes
Ø Les Paul's role in the evolution of guitar effects and audio
processing
Ø Examples of multi-track recording
Ø Sound-on-sound recording and overdubbing techniques
Ø The physics of sound amplification in solid-body electric guitars
Play student Music Choice Assignments for all to hear in the Les
Paul Studio
Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious
cheating notice matters. Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take‐home as well as in
class examinations. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM
Program and Heinz College.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

### *  Plagiarism (explained below)

### *  Submission of work that is not the student’s own

### *  Submission or use of falsified data

### *  Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment

### *  Use of a stand‐in for an exam

### *  Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination

### *  Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignme

nt or exam
*  Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by
an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
### *  Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or
Footnotes including AI. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea
derived from the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s
work and is thereforeequally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that assignment.
### *  The assignment in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending

student’s assignments included in grade calculations.
*  The points for that essay zero (0) will be factored into the grade.
*  The cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade.
*  A cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly.
### *  Cases of cheating and plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more sev

ere penalties may be imposed, up to and including expulsion from Heinz College.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and outside
the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized collaboration) is
obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade
for the assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing grade for
the course.
### Course Policies & ABSENCES/ TARDY:

Expectations We only have a short time together, so please do your best to be present and be ready to work. Should you
have any problems, please contact me prior to class.

Artificial In this class, you are welcome to use generative AI programs such as ChatGPT, Claude, Notebook LM,
Intelligence Policy: Perplexity or other text to media models such as DALL-E. For this course, you may not use a text to music
model such as Udio or Suno to satisfy any of the music specific assignments.
### Suggested uses include:

### *  Brainstorm new ideas

### *  Develop example outlines or approaches to your work

### *  Research topics, bibliographies or generate different ways to talk about a problem

### You may not use AI to:

### *  Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without

quotations and a citation
### *  Generate content that is not paraphrased without a citation

### *  Generate your APA bibliography

### *  Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following provided

guidance.
### *  Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really it

is not
### If you use AI:

*  You must acknowledge the use of AI tools within your work.
### *  You should recognize that large language models often provide incorrect information, fake

citations, contradictory statements or incorporate plagiarized materials.
6