# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 10:00am, Friday, November, class, 1:00pm
Class, 100 points, 10%, ### Class, October
**Document Length**: 1567 words

---

### Course Digital Innovation & Entrepreneurship

### Information Carnegie Mellon University

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

Course # 93.853 Fall 2024
Class 1 — Friday, October 18: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 2 — Friday, October 25: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 3 — Friday, November 1: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 4 — Friday, November 8: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 5 — Friday, November 15: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 6 — Friday, November 22: 10:00am – 1:00pm
Instructor Bob Moczydlowsky bobmoz@me.com
Information skype: bobmoz33
mobile: 310-729-7424
twitter: @bobmoz
Office Hours Immediately before and after class, by appointment. Individual meetings can also occur via IM,
Skype, iChat or in person (with plenty of advance scheduling).

Course This is not a technical course. We won’t learn to write code, nor will we produce any creative
Description work. Instead, we’ll examine business models, distribution philosophies and the physics of media
as they apply to for-profit entertainment companies.

Class 1 will start with an overview of Internet history and vocabulary, designed to make students
fluent in the business language of the Web and mobile. From there, we’ll examine Internet
business models of the past, present and future, and examine specific case studies of both
successes and failures.

We’ll discuss how this disruption creates significant business opportunity – especially for artists
and artists’ business partners. Why license copyrights when there are emerging tools that provide
many of the functions previously controlled by studios and labels?

But this opportunity isn’t limited to just artists – Independent Entrepreneurs will also shape a large
portion of the future of entertainment. We’ll conclude the class by talking about the process of
securing angel and venture funding, and discuss in detail how modern media companies are
changing the entertainment ecosystem.

### Learning/ By the end of the course, students should be expected to:

### Course Learning Objective How Assessed

Objectives* Explain the difference between the Internet In-Class Exercises/ Quiz/ Final Exam
and other mass media
Define and use 50 crucial business and In-class Exercise/ Vocab Quiz
technology terms
Explain how DRM impacts scale, user Quiz/Final Exam
adoption and business opportunity
Create a strategy that takes advantage of the Quiz/Final Exam
way property rights economics have shifted in
favor of the consumer
Illustrate how and why direct-to-fan and artist- Quiz/In-class exercise/ Final Exam
owned businesses are flourishing online
Explain modern business structures and the Quiz/In-class Exercise
ecosystem of media entrepreneurship
Course Details Each class will be divided into two parts. In the event of a quiz or exam, only one part of class will
be used. This will allow for all concepts to be covered in six classes. Hopefully this will maximize
class discussion and minimize homework (and grading).

Course Please bring your laptops. Class requires students to quickly find information online.

Requirements Please bring your mobile phones, we’ll use those, too.

Please pay attention. Please be cool to each other and me.

Required Reading materials for this course will be distributed (and read) in each class. Students will be
Reading expected to keep up with media, entertainment and technology industry news in general.

Attendance Attendance in all sessions is mandatory. If you have to miss class for a legitimate reason, please let
me know as far in advance as possible.
### Assignments Grading will be based on the following:

Final Exam 30% 300 points
Vocab Quiz 20% 200 points
Homework 1 10% 100 points
Homework 2 10% 100 points
Homework 3 10% 100 points
Homework 4 10% 100 points
Participation 10% 100 points

### Class Grading for Class Participation

Participation
### Rubric A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and always contributes regularly and regularly but regularly but
and to the discussion by sometimes rarely never
raising thoughtful contributes to contributes to contributes to
Quality questions, analyzing the discussion in the discussion the discussion
relevant issues, the in the in the
building on others’ aforementioned aforementioned aforemention
ideas, synthesizing ways. ways. ed ways.
across readings and
discussions, expanding
the class’ perspective,
and appropriately
challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
Scale* A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Minimum Passing
C- 71.0-73.9% Failing

### Course Outline: Class 1, Friday, October 18:

## Part One: “The Internet Is Special”

## Part Two: “The 50 Terms You MUST Know To Make Money Online”

We’ll start with some basic history and basic philosophy, then work our way through the
vocabulary words that are essential for modern entertainment companies.
### Class 2, Friday, October 25:

## Part One: VOCAB QUIZ

## Part Two: “What’s Your Business Model?”

From the Dot Com Bubble onward, myriad business models have emerged online. Do they work?

How often? How do entertainment companies benefit? Suffer? A review of how each of the major
companies in film, music and entertainment makes its money. A practical breakdown of business
models that will impact your career.
### Class 3, Friday, November 1:

Both parts: “Media Physics – or -- The Blockbuster Vs. The Snowball”
The Internet changes everything. What does this mean for artists, producers, copyright holders and
fans? We’ll focus on the opportunities and the threats. A breakdown of how the D2C movement
impacts artists, rights holders, consumers, etc.
### Class 4, Friday. November 8:

Both parts: “How does all of this work for Music?”
Now that we know how the Internet is empowering consumers and creators — and removing
traditional middlemen. It’s also changing business models. Who is winning? Who is losing?
### Class 5, Friday, November 15:

Both parts: “How does all of this work for Film/TV?”
Now that we know how the Internet is empowering consumers and creators — and removing
traditional middlemen. It’s also changing business models. Who is winning? Who is losing?
### Class 6, Friday, November 22:

Both parts: “What should Disney do?”
Disney faces a genuine strategic puzzle. We’ll do our best to solve it!
## Part One: “Last Minute Questions? Let’s Hear ‘Em!”

## Part Two: FINAL EXAM

We’ll review and discuss leftover issues in Part One, then take the final exam during Part Two.

Plagiarism Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.
and cheating Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
notice violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take‐home as well as in class examinations. The punishment
for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

### *  Plagiarism (explained below)

### *  Submission of work that is not the student’s own

### *  Submission or use of falsified data

### *  Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment

### *  Use of a stand‐in for an exam

### *  Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination

### *  Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an

assignment or exam
*  Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted b
y an instructor for it to be considered authorized.
### *  Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes.

The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from
the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore
equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that
assignment. The assignment in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending
student’s assignmentsincluded in grade calculations; thepoints for that essay zero (0) will be factored
into the grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating
student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and plagiarism wil
l be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be imposed, up to a
nd including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and
outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism and unauthorized
collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for
violations is a failing grade for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances,
such actions may result in a failing grade for the course.

Artificial In this class, you are welcome and encouraged to use generative AI programs such as ChatGPT or
Intelligence DALL-E.
### Policy Suggested uses include:

*  Brainstorm new ideas.
*  Develop example outlines or approaches to your work.
*  Research topics or generate different ways to talk about a problem.
### If you use AI:

*  You must acknowledge the use of AI tools within your work.
### *  You should recognize that large language models often provide incorrect information, fake

citations, contradictory statements or incorporate plagiarized materials.
*  Tools like ChatGTP are not a verifiable of truth or fact.

If you have any questions, please reach out to the professor.