# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Heinz College Wide Courses, 11:00 AM, 94XXX, 11:00 AM 94708-B2, addition, Marketing, data, interaction, marketing
**Document Length**: 1321 words

---

# 11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
# 94708-B2

Applied Strategic Marketing (HNZ 94708)
Specifics
Professor: Ari Lightman
Office Location: 2107c HBH
Contact: aligh@andrew.cmu.edu, (mailto:aligh@andrew.cmu.edu,) 412-512-7134
### TA: Varshitha Mysore Suresh

Contact: vmysores@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:vmysores@andrew.cmu.edu)
Meets: T/TH Section B 5:00-6:20
Length - 7 weeks (Mini 2) 10/22 - 12/5
Location: HBH 1204
Overview
Marketing is going through a radical shift from traditional to digital, broadcast to hyper targeted,
internally focused to collaborative across the extended organization. In addition, we are seeing a
dramatic shift from a concentration on products and services driven through sales to focusing on
customer experience and engagement. Historically, marketing decisions were based on intuition,
anecdotal information, company capacity and what has worked in the past. John Wanamaker, a
successful United States merchant who opened one of the first and most successful department
stores in the United States, which grew to 16 stores and eventually became part of Macy’s, coined
the term - “Half the money I spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble is I don't know which half”.

Dramatic shifts in the marketspace (as a result on the pandemic and now AI) are resulting in changes
in consumer behavior, shocks to the supply chain and changes in how organization engage and
interact with consumers through a variety of touchpoints. In addition, the impact from disruption
including regulations and new technologies is resulting greater fragmentation threatening market
share forcing organizations to be more nimble, innovative and responsive. Marketing is increasingly
being called on to assess organizational strategies to deal with these shifts. With an increasingly
digitized society, data has allowed marketers to assess different channels for interaction, monitor the
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 1/6

11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
customer journey and measure interaction, brand awareness, and consumer sentiment. Marketers
are looking to develop individualized consumer experiences which is predicated on data as well as
revising processes and interaction across the extended enterprise. Anticipation, resiliency and
adaption to these evolving industry dynamics, shocks to the system and changing consumer
expectations, is key for staying relevant and being able to take advantages of opportunities as they
present themselves.

This class is designed to provide students a foundation of modern marketing but more importantly
how they are applied in today’s environment. We will be doing this through a simulation where
students will run a marketing department over the course of 2 simulated years or 8 quarters (8
moves). We will also cover current issues confronting marketers including messaging bias, data
privacy, brand interruption/hijacking, social influence, misinformation, GenAI etc.

In addition to the simulation, we will have individual observational assessments to spur critical
thinking as to try and understand rational around marketing approaches and tactics. We will also
have in class exercises focused on the simulations to better understand strategies, tactics, and
predict possible results.

Class Learnings
### Marketing Concepts and Application

Critical Thinking and Reasoning focused on marketing related issues
### Team Development - Expectation Setting, Communication and Agility

Applying marketing concepts in a simulation exercise - planning and running a marketing
department
Future of Marketing in an age of automation, hyper targeting and fleeting loyalty
Grading
Engagement (see below) - 10%
Microsimulations - 5%
### Assurance of Learning Assessment - 10%

### Final Submission - 50%

### Observational Assessment – 25%

Engagement
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 2/6

11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Please feel free to reach out to us to discuss if you cannot make it to class. We will attempt to make
every attempt to accommodate without interrupting the learning associated with the class.

Engagement includes active involvement in discussion, interaction with the class either physically or
digitally as well as synchronous and asynchronous, team based exercises and sharing experiences
around the subject of marketing.

Submissions
Teams will have an exercise weekly and will need to submit their work the following week. They will
not be accepted past the due date and time unless a religious observance or a documented medical
condition prevents on-time submission and the team has consulted with the instructor in advance for
approval of an alternate deadline.

Instructions for each submission will be posted to Canvas and the rubric will be provided in class.

Academic Conduct
Students are subject to Carnegie Mellon University’s policies on academic integrity. Plagiarism is a
serious offense and can result in failing the course and other disciplinary action. Plagiarism includes,
but is not limited to:
Presenting another writer’s work as your own;
Cutting and pasting content verbatim without using quotation marks to indicate a direct quote or
paraphrasing content without citing the source in-text using parenthetical references, footnotes, or
endnotes in addition to listing each source on the Works Cited, References, or Notes page in a
manner consistent with the format detailed in an approved style guide;
Providing incomplete or incorrect information about the source cited.

A note about Chat GPT and other GenAI: Since this class will look at ways to incorporate AI into the
discipline of marketing, please fee free to use. However if you directly use output from GenAI please
cite it appropriately.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to
use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and discuss your needs with me as
early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations
but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them
at access@andrew.cmu.edu (mailto:access@andrew.cmu.edu) .
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 3/6

11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
### Statement of Support for Students' Health & Well-being

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will
help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit https://www.cmu.edu/counseling
(https://www.cmu.edu/counseling) . Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you
trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Schedule
### Date Topic HW Observation Exercise (In Class)

10/22 Introduction
Marketing
Marketing - value,
10/24 Exercise/Simulation
purpose and issues
Move# 1
10/29 Positioning Retail Product Assessment
### QFD and Demand Product Feature

10/31
Curves/Planning Decision Analysis
Streaming Services
Online - Segmentation
Analysis
11/5
and Targeting
11/7 No Class (TBD)
11/12 Consumer Behavior Sampling Methods
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 4/6

11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
11/14 Pricing Pricing Exercise
11/19 Data and research Online Data Collection
11/21 Channels Channel Research
Digital Media and
11/26
Marketing -
No Class -
11/28
Thanksgiving Break
Google Analytics
12/3 AI/ML and Marketing (https://moz.com/beginnersguide-to-google-analytics)
### Web3 - Evolution or

12/5 Maturation of
Marketing
Class schedule and assignments are subject to change.
### Important Dates:

10/25 – Last day to Add/Drop for Mini II
12/13 - Final Due
12/17 – Final Grades due by Midnight
Resources
Principles of Marketing (https://saylordotorg.github.io/text_principles-of-marketingv2.0/index.html)
E-marketing
CMU Library Databases (http://search.library.cmu.edu/databases/)
Advertising Age (Links to an external site.) (http://adage.com/) : Complete access to AdAge
magazine articles online
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 5/6

11/7/24, 11:00 AM 94708-B2: Heinz College Wide Courses (94XXX)
Consumer Reports (Links to an external site.)
(http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/index.htm) : Rates consumer products and reports on
consumer surveys
IBIS World: In-depth industry market research reports with analysis, data, conditions,
segmentation, market share, primary companies, and outlook for over 700 industries in the US.

MarketLine: (Links to an external site.) (http://www.marketline.com/) Profiles of companies,
industries, and countries, often containing SWOT and 5 forces analysis; also covers M&A and
financial deal activity, and market data on a number of consumer products.
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/40958/pages/94708-b2?module_item_id=5806239 6/6