# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, Students, AI, students, US, the university, plagiarism, others, this class
**Document Length**: 2484 words

---

# Health Systems M, W 10a-11:45a
* 
Rebekah Apple, MA, DHSc rebekaha@andrew.cmu.edu
* 
# 412-268-8634/727-515-0101

Office hours by appointment
“Society will permit you to use drugs and instruments that can do great harm as
well as great good, and that in the hands of others would be weapons.”
- Donald M. Berwick, MD, MPP, Yale Medical School Graduation Address, May 24, 2010
Course Description: Health Systems is a foundational course that introduces students to many of the
broad subjects that will be detailed in more advanced course work. The goal of this course is to provide
an overview of the health care delivery system and the stakeholders involved in providing care and
treatment. You will gain an understanding of many complexities within the US health care system,
including (but not limited to) applicable professional principles for those in health care, the role of
government, quality improvement initiatives, and concepts related to health equity. Case studies, small
group discussions, scholarly readings, and videos will demonstrate the importance of dynamics within
health care delivery systems and the myriad motivations of stakeholders involved in the healing process.

Course Objectives: By the end of the course, students will be able to 1) Understand the history,
milestones, and current models of US health care delivery, 2) Recognize strengths and weaknesses of
various reimbursement models, 3) Comprehend the health care inequities and their consequences in
the US, 4) Understand initiatives to improve health care and what such endeavors mean for the future.

Each of these objectives will be assessed through class participation, presentations, and papers.

Materials: The text used for this course: Shi, L., & Singh, D. A. (2021). Delivering health care in America:
A systems approach. Eighth edition. Jones & Bartlett. All other materials, except those students must
research on their own, are posted in the Canvas course site.

Expectations: This course requires significant reading, writing, and discussion. It is expected that
everyone will come to class prepared to discuss the readings. My goal is to make this an excellent
learning experience for you. I ask that you be respectful of others by arriving to class on time and not
using your electronic devices in class without discussing with me first.

All students are expected to display critical thinking and express their perceptions and conclusions in
class discussions and activities. Sharing your own knowledge and experience benefits the entire class.

Constructive contribution to the class discussion and genuine listening to others is an important element
of learning.

To attend class meetings in person, all students are expected to abide by all behaviors indicated in A
Tartan’s Responsibility, including any timely updates based on current conditions. In terms of specific
classroom expectations, whenever the requirement to wear a facial covering is in effect on campus,
students are expected to wear a facial covering throughout class. If you do not wear a facial covering to
class when directed by the university, I will ask you to put one on (and if you don’t have one with you, I
will direct you to a distribution location on campus, see https://www.cmu.edu/coronavirus/health-andwellness/facial-covering.html). If you do not comply, you will be referred to the Office of Community
Standards and Integrity for follow up, which could include student conduct action.

Evaluation/Grading/Assessment: All assignments and class participation are graded on a point scale as
outlined below. The maximum points one can achieve for the entire semester is 200. Final course
grades will be assigned as follows:
Activity Possible Points
In-class participation 10
Prompt responses (5 @10 each) 50
Presentations 40
Panel participation 10
Panel-assigned points 5
Case study 50
### Letter Grade % Letter Grade %

A+ 97-100 B- 80-82
A 93-96 C+ 77-79
A- 90-92 C 73-76
B+ 87-89 C- 70-72
B 83-86
Assessment 1: Participation & prompt responses – 60 point maximum. It is not possible to pass this
class having missed more than 2 sessions. 10 points – all or nothing – will be added for class
participation as evaluated over the course of the semester by the instructor. There will be five in-class
responses@10 points each required by students. Students who are absent on the day a response is
due will be required to complete an extra response in addition to making up what was missed in class.

Assessment 2: Presentations – 40 pt maximum. Students will form small groups who each provide a 10minute presentation focused on one of the instructor-provided topics. Groups will then respond to
panel follow-up questions.

Assessment 3: Panel-assigned points – 5 pt maximum. Each presenting group has the opportunity to
earn up to 5 points from the panel. These points will be the same for all presenters in a group. The way
to avoid 0 points is to have a strong selection of resources to which you can direct the panel.

Assessment 4: Panel participation – 10 pt maximum. Students will form a panel consisting of the same
people in their presentation group. Panelists will receive a pre-scripted question from the instructor to
pose after another group has concluded their presentation. Panelists will then convene with each other
to evaluate the response provided by the group presenters and formulate two additional questions. All
panel members are expected to participate in the formulation of questions. All panel members will
receive the same grade for this assignment.

Assessment 5: Case study – 50 point maximum. Students will review a healthcare business case study of
their own choosing and assess the manner in which the company approached the endeavor/project.

Resources and data are critical components of this assignment, and students are expected to personally
communicate with a professional in the field and include details from that conversation in their analysis.

Students must also provide resource recommendations for further exploration. This assessment can
take the form of a graphic presentation, paper, video, or something else provided permission has been
granted by instructor.

Academic Statement: You are expected to attend class, be prepared for class and participate in the
discussions. Written assignments are due on or before the due date. If you must miss a class, please
notify me with as much advanced notice as possible; if you cannot talk with me directly, please leave a
message on my voice mail or e-mail. For any class that you miss, you are responsible for obtaining the
notes and related materials from another student. Please let me know if you do not understand class
material or requirements or if any special circumstance prevents you from completing a class
requirement on time.

You are responsible to know and adhere to all University policies on academic integrity. The Heinz
School provides a booklet on Plagiarism and Cheating and the University lists all policies on the web at
www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html. Please acquaint yourself with their contents. Any
cheating or plagiarism will result in failure in the course and your case will be referred to the Associate
Dean, who may decide to take further action.

Recording academic classroom activities, lectures, etc and use of electronic devices: Classroom
activities, lectures, etc. may not be recorded without my written permission in advance. If a student is
permitted to record classroom activities, lectures, etc., the student may do so for his/her own personal
use only; additionally, no copies of the original recording can be made. All electronic devices such as cell
phones, iPods, laptops, tablets, etc., are to be turned off and stowed prior to entering the classroom.

There is no difference between texting/instant messaging/etc and holding a full conversation in person
while in a classroom setting. Students using such devices for personal reasons within the classroom
without prior approval will be asked to leave the room until they are finished with their task.
### Use of Generative AI:

You are welcome to use generative AI programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this class. These programs
can be powerful tools for learning and other productive pursuits, including completion of some
assignments in less time, helping you generate new ideas, or serving as a personalized learning tool.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic integrity
guidelines of the university and of this class. If you use one of these generative AI tools to develop
content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work. In practice,

cutting and pasting content from any source without citation is plagiarism. Likewise, paraphrasing
content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using any generative AI tool
without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The university’s policy on
plagiarism applies to all uncited or improperly cited use of work, whether that work is created by human
beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI. In this class, you may use generative AI programs
to:
### *  Brainstorm new ideas

### *  Develop example outlines or approaches to your work

### *  Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem

### You may not use generative AI programs to:

### *  Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without

quotations and a citation
### *  Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation

### *  Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself

### *  Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following

provided guidance
### *  Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really

it is not
Finally, it is important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with
incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory
statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes
integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image generation
models may create misleading or offensive content.

While you may use these tools in the work you create for this class, it is important to note that you
understand you are ultimately responsible for the content that you submit. Work that is inaccurate,
biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be penalized.

Course Schedule
### Date Topic(s) Homework Items Due

1/13/25 Introduction Lawton Burns excerpt
to the What is health insurance
fundamentals Hx of Pub Health (Natl Academies)
### of the US Characteristics of US Healthcare System

healthcare
system and
overview of
class
1/15/25 Introduction Understanding Med + CHIP (TechTarget)
to US HC costs and affordability (KFF) Group 1 presentation
healthcare https://files.kff.org/attachment/healthpolicy-101-health-care-costs-andaffordability.pdf

What are med adv plans (Centene/Fix)
Can Drs choose
1/20/25 NO CLASS
1/22/25 Costs & Dean Jargo interview
financing in Jim Simmons intvw Group 2 presentation
healthcare
1/27/25 Costs &
financing in The Cliff of Good Health Group 3 presentation
healthcare Gardener’s Tale
Disparities in Healthcare
1/29/25 Equity in
healthcare
2/3/25 Equity in OECD highlights
healthcare
2/5/25 Quality,
safety, &
improvement
2/10/25 Quality,
safety, & Healthcare consolidation: Group 4 presentation
improvement https://www.medicaleconomics.com/view/
ep-35-joseph-betancourt-md-on-healthcare-consolidation
Looming redesign (Becker’s)
Chris Saunders interview
https://cmu.zoom.us/rec/share/jhscfZzHYVRgo
oeTXI99mC24fZ8mBYLAkBWBxsORWMs0NiJy
ovjJz-_13J7NyAD3.19K4c6bcKmRiI1-0
Passcode: ^2#ZULr8
2/12/25 Business/Tech Future of Coding:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZpVfJw Group 5 presentation
0Dccw (coding; 8:40-end)
Real world Data Models: https://www.qcentrix.com/resources/developing-a-realworld-data-model/
(up to 23:29)
2/17/25 Business/Tech Artificial Intelligence and Healthcare: A
Journey through History, Present Group 6 presentation
### Innovations, and Future Possibilities

Paying for AI in healthcare
Coalition for Health AI: https://chai.org/
2/19/25 AI Honda’s Haru
https://www.techradar.com/tech/hondasnew-ai-powered-robot-helps-sick-kidsthrough-lengthy-hospital-treatments-andits-working?utm_term=DE09CF768C41-4F73-9C24AB2E7292E8F3&lrh=93b66bcb86da798
ed6fb3c558ac6034aedd7667b3fe78577
02b7bc4fae311855&utm_campaign=95
EE6D60-D70D-47B9-82C2F1105A0A863C&utm_medium=email&ut
m_content=12D84622-B8AB-41329AD2-
B935CB9E2202&utm_source=SmartBrie
f
2/24/25 AI How should we fund end-of-life care in the
US? Group 7 presentation
### Caring for an Aging US Population

2/26/25 Elder care and Case study
end of life
### Please note:

Student Wellness - The last few years have been challenging. We are all under a lot of stress and
uncertainty. I encourage you to reach out to your support system or me [rebekaha@andrew.cmu.edu] if
you need. We can all benefit from support in times of stress, and this semester is no exception.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety
or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS)
is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website athttp://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider
reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support
that can help.

If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus
that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment: Pantry Coordinator,
cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu, 412-268-8704 (SLICE office).

CMU offers resources for students with international status, who primarily speak languages other than
English, and/or have attended high school or undergraduate programs in the US. If you or someone you
know is interested in honing language and cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success,
please visit: https://www.cmu.edu/student-success/programs/language-support/index.html.
### Diversity Statement:

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national origin,
language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief,
veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not
mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at
CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence
and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we
also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus
community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.

Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They
contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university.

Therefore, the university encourages anyone who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment
on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after
the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
Report-It online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions.

Regardless of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our campus
climate to be more equitable and just.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities - If you have a disability and have an accommodations
letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs
with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are
provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from
accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to
contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.