# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, students, SQL, the instructor, TAs, the class, Cengage Learning, Students, Carnegie Mellon University, HbH
**Document Length**: 1769 words

---

# Course
95–703 A: Database Management
Information
12 Unit Course
Spring 2025
Instructor: Janusz Szczypula
Office: Hamburg Hall (HbH) 3036
Phone: 412 – 268 – 6096
E-mail: js1m@andrew.cmu.edu
Office hours: Posted on the class website (on the Contacts page)
Teaching Assistants (TAs):* TBD
Class Times: Tuesday & Thursday, 9:30 a.m. – 10:50 a.m. HbH 2008
Class Schedule: Posted on the class website
Class Website: www.cmu.edu/canvas
Prerequisites There are no prerequisites for this course for students in MISM, and in MSIT Programs in the
Heinz College. For other Heinz College students, 90728 (Introduction to Database
Management) is a prerequisite.

Description Database systems are central to most organizations’ operations. At any organizational level,
users can expect to have frequent interaction with databases, and to use then to prepare useful
analytics. Therefore, understanding capabilities and limitations of databases, knowing how to
access data, knowing how to effectively use the information stored in such database systems,
and skills in designing database systems is a distinct advantage and necessity today. The
Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is the dominant type of database systems
and is the primary focus of this course.

This core course will cover topics such as: the relational data model (data structure, data
integrity, and data manipulation), entity-relationship modelling, normalization, as well as the
structured query language (for creating data structures and constraints, for managing tables’
content, and for creating variety of queries that address business scenarios)
Further, to provide students with opportunity to apply the knowledge learnt from lectures,
various homework assignments, SQL assignments, and a database implementation project will
be given.
* TAs will be helping students from any section of the Database Management class. Complete list of TAs and their office hours will be posted
on the class website (on the Contacts page).

### Course Materials Lecture Notes:

Lecture notes will be provided for each class. They can be used during the semester you
take the class. They cannot be shared after the class is concluded without permission of
the instructor.
### Textbook:

Casteel, J., “Oracle 12c: SQL,” Cengage Learning, 2016
### Suggested Books:

Connolly, T. and C. Begg, “Database Systems: A Practical Approach to Design,
Implementation, and Management,” 6th edition, Addison-Wesley, 2015
Coronel, C. and S. Morris, “Database Systems: Design, Implementation, & Management,”
14th edition, Cengage Learning, 2022
Hoffer, J. A., R. Venkataraman, and Heikki Topi, “Modern Database Management,” 13th
edition, Prentice Hall, 2019
Price, J., “Oracle Database 12c: SQL,” McGraw Hill, 2014
### Software:

Instructions will be provided to configure an Oracle Instant Client that will be required
during the semester. No other components of Oracle Software will be required for this class.

Course Objectives
Objective
Gain good understanding of relational data model in terms of data structure,
data integrity, and data manipulation.

Understand and create conceptual database models utilizing entityrelationship modeling.

Design data structures that will limit redundancy and enforce data integrity
while conforming to business requirements utilizing normalization
methodology.

Understand relational algebra as foundation for the Structured Query
Language (SQL) used in Relational Database Management Systems.

Implement a data model in a current Relational Database Management
System (creating a database, creating and enforcing data integrity rules,
populating the database tables, and running various queries to test the
implemented model).

Read and interpret a given data model to query the database and transform
the data into information using SQL language.

Apply advanced query concepts (including elements such as sub-queries,
aggregating data, and Analytic SQL functions) for analyzing enterprise data
and creating complex reports.
### Evaluation Method Student’s performance in the class will be evaluated based on the following components:

Homework Assignments 25%
SQL Assignments 20%
Project 25%
Final Exam 30%
TOTAL : 100%
### Homework Assignments:

The homework assignments require students to employ critical thinking to design database
models applying the concepts learnt in the lectures. The focus is on understanding business
requirement and designing data models to capture good quality data. Topics covered in the
assignments includes conceptual and logical database modeling, normalization, and relational
algebra. The relational algebra assignment is a foundation for learning the Structured Query
Language (SQL).
### SQL Assignments:

The SQL assignments are hands-on assignments that require students to create and execute
various SQL statements and queries, using Oracle Database Software, that address business
requirement. The submitted assignments are required to be well formatted and readable.
### Project:

Based on the logical model of a small database, the project consists of implementing the data
structure, performing data manipulation tasks and specific queries. The project will integrate
and apply the concepts you have learned in class. Guidelines for the project assignment will
be distributed and discussed in a later part of the semester.
### Exam:

The exam will be a comprehensive closed book, closed notes exam. The exam is to be
completed by you individually without help of any other student. The date for the exam will
be decide asap. The exam will be graded by the Instructor and class TAs. Final grades will
be posted in the official Student Information System that can be accessed by students directly
through the Internet.

Grading Scale A+ 97% – 100 % B+ 85% – 88.99 % C+ 73% – 76.99 %
A 93% – 96.99 % B 81% – 84.99 % C 69% – 72.99 %
A– 89% – 92.99 % B– 77% – 80.99 % C– 65% – 68.99 %
Scores below 65% equate to a failing grade (R)
### Course Policies Lectures:

& Expectations
While no attendance will be taken, it is in your interest to attend each lecture. Class
participation is encouraged and expected. As research on learning shows, unexpected noises
and movement automatically divert and capture people's attention. I encourage you to avoid
any activity not related to class. Please turn off your phone notifications and limit other likely
sources of technology disruption, so you can fully focus on the lectures. This will create a
better learning environment for everyone.

No student may record any classroom activity without the express written consent of the
instructor. This is to protect your FERPA rights and those of your fellow students.
### Missed Classes:

Students are responsible for obtaining class material, which may have been discussed on days
when they are absent. This can be done through the class website, by contacting a classmate
who was present, or by contacting the instructor.
### Assignments:

Every assignment has due date indicated in the class schedule and on the assignment
document.

No assignments submitted after the deadline will be accepted, unless permission is granted by
the instructor prior to the due date. Late assignments, if approved, should be submitted
directly to the instructor. Do not submit any late assignments to class Teaching Assistants.

Each assignment must be typed, and diagrams created using PowerPoint or an equivalent tool.

No collaboration in any form on assignments is allowed. It is important that the work you
turn in is wholly your own.

All assignments are graded by class TAs and reviewed by the instructor before they are
returned to students within a week of submission. If you believe that your assignment was
graded incorrectly, you may request that it be re-graded. To do this, turn in your graded
assignment in question with an explanation (email to the instructor will be sufficient) within a
week from the time the assignment was returned to you. The entire assignment is subject to
re-grading, not just the specific item(s) in question and the grade may go up or down.
### Accommodations for Students with Disabilities:

If you have a disability and have an accommodation letter from the Disability Resources
office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the
semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from
accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.
### Statement of Support for Students’ Health & Well-being:

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding
drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep, and taking some time to relax. This will help you
achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings
like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412 – 268 – 2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Academic Honesty All CMU students are expected to follow the ethical guidelines and adhere to the policies as
and Integrity defined in your Program’s Student Handbook or in any other source describing such policies
as they apply to students at Carnegie Mellon University. These policies and guidelines are
available on the CMU web site. Please read them carefully! You will be held accountable for
any violations of these policies and guidelines.

Collaboration or assistance on academic work to be graded is not permitted. Individual
assignments must reflect individual effort. Although I expect you to attempt solving each
problem on your own, I encourage you to seek help from the class TAs if you struggle with
any assignment. Sharing any part of your assignments with any other student in any form
(whether it is an email message, a paper document, an electronic document such like a MS
Word document, or your work in any other format) is not permitted and will be considered
cheating. Any “discussion” between students that results in a similar HW submission is also
not allowed.

In this class, use of Generative AI tools for completing any graded class assignments is not
allowed. Turning in any AI-generated material as your own, regardless of whether it is
directly inserted or rephrased, is considered a violation of academic integrity.

Students are expected to develop a strong understanding of database foundations and to
acquire necessary proficiencies before considering enrollment in more advanced classes.

Using Generative AI tools for completing assignments interferes with developing foundational
database knowledge and in gaining confidence in the ability to master the needed skills.
### Any violations of academic integrity in this class will have the following consequences:

a) No credit for the assignment in question and lowering final grade by one letter (e.g., from
B to C),
b) In more serious offences, failing the class.

All incidents are reported to the Office of Community Standards & Integrity at
Carnegie Mellon University. Additional penalties may be imposed.
5