# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, students, Chs, this course, Farr, Strategy Theme, class, AI, plagiarism
**Document Length**: 4339 words

---

# Course 90-789 and 90-489: Resilient and Sustainable Communities
Information
Spring 2025
### H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management

Carnegie Mellon University
Location: HBH 1004 (Section A) in Pittsburgh
Meeting Day: Wednesday (Section A)
Meeting Time: 6:30 – 9:20 PM (Section A)
Faculty Instructor: Matthew M. Mehalik, Ph.D.
### Adjunct Professor of Environmental Policy

(412) 445-0411
Email: mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours: by appointment
Prerequisites
# 90-780: Graduate Level Enrollment or Permission of Instructor

# 90-489: Undergraduate Level Enrollment or Permission of Instructor

Description 90-789 and 90-489: This course examines past and current community development topics
and trends associated with creating and/or maintaining resilient and sustainable communities.

Such topics include sustainable development, community equity, creative capitalism, regional
planning and visioning, environmental justice, governance, regional equitable development,
sustainable business practices, green/clean tech, smart growth and smart transportation,
carbon management, resource conservation, local living economies, energy systems and
strategies, dynamics of neighborhoods, among other topics. Emphasis will fall on how these
various dimensions need to strategically align to promote sustainable communities amidst
their complexities.

The class will also delve into a variety of community development practices to provide
frameworks for integrating just, equitable, and fair community development practices with
sustainable development practices. The class takes lessons from the past (both what has
worked and what did not work) as well as appropriate, current practices and explores how to
apply them to a variety of community situations and conditions.

The focus is on urban communities in the U.S and worldwide, both large and small. The
course includes experiential, hands-on learning (projects, case studies, analyses, presentations,
field trips, and guest lectures) as well as reflective components (readings, discussion, and
papers).
### By the end of the course, each student will be able to:

### *  Learn and deploy equitable, fair, just, resilient, sustainable, and green development

practices and how to integrate these techniques into community development strategies;
### *  Evaluate and design various public planning and policy initiatives on the formation of

places; and

### *  Engage with communities with appropriate processes and strategies to align with their

resilient capacities as they face equity-informed, environmental, economic, and social
challenges.

Required Course Farr, Douglas. (2012). Sustainable Urbanism: Urban Design with Nature. John Wiley and
Materials Sons, Inc. Publishers, Washington, DC.

Most readings will be available online through Canvas
### Evaluation Your final grade will be based on:

Method
### *  Case Assignments/Homework: 30%

### *  Midterm 20%

### *  Group Final Report 25%

### *  Group Final Presentation 10%

### *  Final Reflection 15%

In addition, your final grade will incorporate a multiplier (from 0.7 to 1.1) based upon interim
and final peer evaluations based upon a peer evaluation rubric and from instructor observations.

Learning/Course Skills and knowledge to gain and how you will be assessed
Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Learn and deploy a systems-based
approach towards structuring and Cases, Midterm, Final Project
analyzing a sustainable communityrelated design/needs-based challenge
Learn and deploy sustainable and green Cases, Homework, Midterm, Final Project
development practices and how to
integrate these techniques into
community development strategies
Evaluate and design various public Cases, Midterm, Final Project
planning and policy initiatives on the
formation of places
Engage with communities with Final Project
appropriate processes and strategies to
enhance their resilient capacities as
they face environmental, economic,
and social challenges
Assess how the courses tools relate to Final Reflection
career goals and objectives
Grading Scale A+ 99.0-100% B+ 88.0-90.9% C+ 78.0-80.9%
(90-789) A 94.0-98.9% B 84.0-87.9% C 74.0-77.9%
A- 91.0-93.9% B- 81.0-83.9% C- 71.0-73.9%
D, R 70.9% and below
Grading Scale
(90-489) A 90.0-100% D 60.0 – 69.9%
B 80.0 – 89.9% R 59.9% and below
C 70.0 – 79.9%
Grading Rubrics Cases, Presentations, Midterm, Peer Assessment, and Final Project Rubrics will be provided throughout
the semester.

Academic
Integrity, *  I expect that all work students submit for this course will be their own. I have
Plagiarism, and
carefully designed all assignments and class activities to support your learning. Doing
Cheating Notice
your own work is best for your achievement of the learning objectives in this course.

In instances when collaborative work is assigned, I expect for the submitted work to
list all team members who participated.
*  Plagiarism: All work in this class must be your own. It is unprofessional to copy or
use another person’s materials or ideas without proper attribution to that person.

Plagiarism ruins the careers of professionals and also is in violation of University
policy. If you have questions about proper attribution, do not hesitate to contact me
for help.
### *  Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are taken extremely

seriously. Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as
among the most serious violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as
plagiarism on a required paper or assignment or as cheating on an examination,
regardless of whether it is a take-home or in-class examination. The punishment for
such offenses can involve expulsion from the program. There are many other ways in
which a violation can occur.
### *  Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards

inside and outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e. plagiarism
and unauthorized collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated
appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade for the particular
assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a
failing grade for the course.
### *  Academic integrity governs the way in which classwork, writing, and research are

done at a University. It is founded on the principles of respect for knowledge, truth,
scholarship, and acting with honesty. These principles and values are the foundation
of academia and are especially important to Carnegie Mellon with its mission of
providing public and private sector education for professionals. Academic integrity is
essential for all students and it is the responsibility of all faculty members to provide
learning environments that foster and enforce academic integrity. As per university
rules, faculty must report all incidents to the appropriate associate dean in which there
is sufficient evidence that a student or students have broached academic integrity by
cheating or plagiarism.
*  90-789 Students: Please visit the Heinz College Student Handbook, CHAPTER 16,
“ETHICS AND DISCIPLINE,” for guidance on issues related to academic integrity,
as these policies are in effect in this course: https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/heinzshared/_files/img/student-handbooks/heinz-college-student-handbook.pdf
*  90-489 Students: Please visit the Carnegie Mellon University Policy on Academic
Integrity for guidance on issues related to academic integrity, as these policies are in
effect in this course: https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html
Guidance for Proper citation and formatting of sources are central to meeting the requirements of academic
Citation of Sources integrity. Here are some recommended guidelines. This course recommends using the APA Style
### Guide; however, you may choose any of the following styles if you are consistent in their use:

*  American Psychological Association (APA) Style: https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammarguidelines
### *  Modern Language Association (MLA)

style: https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/mla_style/mla_formatting_and_style_
guide/mla_general_format.html
*  Chicago Manual of Style: https://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide/citationguide-1.html
Use of Generative These tools are forbidden to be used for the midterm exam, final presentation, and final
AI Programs reflection paper.

Generative AI programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) can serve as useful references for case
assignments and for supporting your research project. The content generated from these
sources are not substitutes for your own research, generative thinking, analysis, expression,
synthesis or reasoned arguments.

You must follow the academic integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. If
you use one of these generative AI tools to develop content for an assignment, you are
required to cite the tool’s contribution to your work.

Treat information from these tools as if they are like the sharing of an algorithm’s output
(because that is what it is).

Any such use must be appropriately acknowledged and cited, following the guidelines
established by the APA Style Guide (or equivalent in MLA or Chicago styles), including the
specific version of the tool used.

Submitted work should include the exact prompt used to generate the content as well as
the AI’s full response in an Appendix.

Following the APA Style Guide, the proper handling of the citation is to give credit to the
author of the algorithm. Include this information as an entry in a reference list. Provide a
corresponding in-text citation. The results should be acknowledged as a source and checked
for validity and credibility with your own additional research.

Cutting and pasting content from any source without citation is plagiarism. Likewise,
paraphrasing content from a generative AI without citation is plagiarism. Similarly, using
any generative AI tool without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as
plagiarism. The university’s policy on plagiarism applies to all uncited or improperly cited
use of work, whether that work is created by human beings alone or in collaboration with a
generative AI.
### You may not use generative AI programs to:

o Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component
without quotations and a citation and appendix
o Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
o Generate bibliographies for topics that you have not researched yourself
o Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and
following provided guidance
o Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work,
when really it is not
Finally, it is important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users
with incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate
contradictory statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and
can sometimes integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate
outputs. Image generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

It is important to note that you understand you are ultimately responsible for the content
that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or
incorrect will be penalized.

Course Policies &
Expectations *  Professionalism: Your entire experience is geared toward helping you develop skills
necessary to participate in the world as a qualified professional. This means taking
responsibility for the work that you produce and for your conduct among your student
colleagues and other members of the university community. Quality work in
developing knowledge, skills, and wisdom are the most important goals to keep in
mind. Quantity of product and number of hours spent working are secondary to
overall quality.
*  Attendance: Students are expected to attend all sessions. Students may be excused
from two classes for professional, health, or personal reasons when the instructor is
notified of the pending absence. Attendance performance is used as a multiplying
factor in the final grade.
### *  Participation: It is essential for all students to participate fully in class in their case

evaluation teams. Students will complete a peer evaluation of their team’s
performance. The instructor will note class participation observations. The results of
the evaluation scores are used as a multiplying factor in the final grade, using a
statistical distribution of the scores with mean and cut point performance thresholds
based on standard deviations from mean performance.
*  Recording of Class: Some students find it helpful to record class sessions. Because
there may be times when recording of class may be inappropriate, students must
request the instructor’s permission prior to recording classes. All such recordings are
for personal use. Copies of these recordings may not be distributed to anyone else in
any format or fashion.
*  Contacting me for help: Send me an e-mail to set up an appointment. Email is the
best way to get in contact with me.

Student Well-Being *  We are all under a lot of stress. Make sure to move regularly, eat well, and reach out
to your support system or me (mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu) if you need to. We can
all benefit from support in times of stress, and this semester is no exception.
### *  The CMU Community Health and Well Being website provides information and

resources for all members of the CMU community:
https://www.cmu.edu/wellbeing/index.html
*  Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by
eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep, and taking
some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress. All of
us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many
helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience
is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often
helpful. If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life
events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek
support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-2682922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching
out to a friend, faculty, or family member you trust for help getting connected to the
support that can help. If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of
self-harm, call someone immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
### If the situation is life threatening, call the police:

On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
If you have questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.
### *  Food Insecurity: If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure

about food, there are resources on campus who can help. Email the CMU Food
### Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:

Pantry Coordinator
cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu
# 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)

Transferring to *  If the class needs to go fully remote, you will receive an email from me, and an
fully remote during announcement will be published on our course website on Canvas.
the semester
Use of technology *  This class involves regular use of technology– both for in-person and remote students.
during class Research has shown that divided attention is detrimental to learning, so I encourage
you to close any windows not directly related to what we are doing while you are in
class. Please turn off your phone notifications and limit other likely sources of
technology disruption, so you can fully engage with the material, each other, and me.

Also, if applicable, people in remote mode should have their video turned on during
the entire class time. This will create a better learning environment for everyone. A
laptop will be needed for our in-person classes, so if you do not have access to one,
please email me (mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu) as soon as possible so we can find a
solution.

Accommodations *  If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability
for students with Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with
disabilities
me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the
Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Diversity statement *  We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and
this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive
campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves,
including but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age,
sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or
genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not
mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our
campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity, and inclusion not only
because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue
justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work,
inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community
that increasingly embraces these core values.
*  Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment.
### *  Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or

unintentional. They contribute to creating an unwelcoming environment for
individuals and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone
who experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment based on identity to speak out
for justice and support, within the moment of the incident or after the incident has
passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the following resources:
*  Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 2682150
*  Report-It online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net username: tartans
password: plaid
### *  All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be

any following actions. Regardless of incident type, the university will use all
shared experiences to transform our campus climate to be more equitable and just.

Recording of class
sessions *  For this course, I will be recording class sessions and making them available to you
for your personal, educational use. Recordings of class sessions are covered under
the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) and must not be shared
with anyone outside your course-section. The purpose of these recordings is so
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past
class sessions. Feel free to use the recordings if you would like to review something
we discussed in class or if you are temporarily unable to attend class. The links to the
recorded sessions will be available on Canvas.
### *  If the situation presents itself where we will need to transition to remote learning,

please make sure that your Internet connection and equipment are set up to use Zoom
and able to share audio and video during class meetings. (See this page from
### Computing Resources for information on the technology you are likely to need:

https://www.cmu.edu/computing/start/students.html)
### *  Let me know if there is a gap in your technology set-up

(mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu) as soon as possible, and we can see about finding
solutions.
### *  Sharing video: In this course, being able to see one another helps to facilitate a better

learning environment and promote more engaging discussions. Therefore, if we are in
remote learning mode, our default will be to expect students to have their cameras on
during lectures and discussions. However, I also completely understand there may be
reasons students would not want to have their cameras on. If you have any concerns
about sharing your video, please email me as soon as possible
(mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu) and we can discuss possible adjustments. Note: You
may use a background image in your video if you wish; just check in advance that this
works with your device(s) and internet bandwidth.
### *  If you are logged in remotely during our class meetings, please keep your mic muted

unless you are sharing with the class or your breakout group.
### *  If you have a question or want to answer a question, please use the chat or the "raise

hand" feature. I will be monitoring these channels to call on students to contribute.
### *  Our synchronous meetings may involve breakout room discussions, and those will

work better if everyone in your small group has their camera turned on. During large
group debriefs, you may keep your video off.

Grading policies *  All assignments have due dates indicated on the syllabus. In general, submitting
and late assignments on time lets me provide feedback in a more timely and efficient manner.
assignments
Assignments build on each other, so timely submissions are crucial to your progress
in the class. However, sometimes life happens. If you cannot submit an assignment on
time, the default will be that you will be eligible for 90% of the grade the first 48
hours that the assignment is late. If you must submit beyond 48 hours past the due
date, please contact me (mmehalik@andrew.cmu.edu) as soon as possible so we can
plan.

Student Academic Student Academic Success Center (SASC)
Success Center SASC focuses on creating spaces for students to engage in their coursework and approach
(SASC) learning through a variety of group and individual tutoring options. We offer many
opportunities for students to deepen their understanding of who they are as learners,
communicators, and scholars. Our workshops are free to the CMU community and meet the
needs of all disciplines and levels of study. SASC programs to support student learning
include the following (program titles link to webpages):
### *  Academic Coaching--This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and

group workshops to help undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for
success. Request an initial consultation here.
### *  Peer Tutoring--Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support

related to their coursework. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being
supported by Peer Tutoring.
### *  Communication Support--Communication Support offers free one-on-one

communication consulting as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral,
and visual communication in texts including IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, datadriven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design, advanced research,
application materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data
visualization, and team projects. Schedule an appointment on our website (in-person,
zoom synchronous, or recorded video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or
videos to strengthen communication skills.
### *  Language and Cross-Cultural Support--This program supports students seeking

help with language and cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success
through individual and group sessions. Make an appointment with a Language
Development Specialist to get individualized coaching.
### *  Supplemental Instruction (SI)--This program offers a non-remedial approach to

learning in historically difficult courses at CMU. Visit the website to see courses with
SI available here.
### Schedule and Specific Learning Objectives

Times and dates are listed for Section A (Pittsburgh).
## Week Date Assignment

1 1/15 *  Course Introduction & Overview
*  Discussion/Exercise: What is sustainable community development?
2 1/22 *  Explore course project topics
### *  Strategy Theme

o Making the case for sustainable communities (posted on Canvas)
### o Farr, Chs. 1 & 2

o UN Sustainable Development Knowledge Platform: https://sdgs.un.org
o USEPA Sustainability Practices www.epa.gov/sustainability/
▪ Browse “What is Sustainability,” and other areas on this page
that interest you
o Current Executive Orders and Initiatives (subject to changes):
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidentialactions/2021/01/20/executive-order-protecting-public-health-andenvironment-and-restoring-science-to-tackle-climate-crisis/
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidentialactions/2021/01/27/executive-order-on-tackling-the-climate-crisis-athome-and-abroad/
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidentialactions/2021/05/20/executive-order-on-climate-related-financial-risk/
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statementsreleases/2022/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harrisadministration-announces-roadmap-for-nature-based-solutions-to-fightclimate-change-strengthen-communities-and-support-local-economies/
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-actguidebook/
o https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/guidebook/
### *  Dimensional Theme

o Resource scarcity and Urbanism
o Brown, Chs. 1, 2 (posted on Canvas)
o http://www.citylab.com
o https://casestudies.uli.org
### *  Skill Development

https://www.footprintcalculator.org and https://davidsuzuki.org/take-action/ and
https://www.drawdown.org
Be sure to turn in your presentation of results from your footprint analysis and be
prepared to discuss the presentation in class.
3 1/29 *  Course project teams finalized
### *  Strategy Theme

o Leadership and communication
### o Farr, Ch. 3

o Strategies for accelerating system change
o D. Meadows, Leverage Points - Places to Intervene in a System
### *  Dimensional Theme

### o Design for Urbanism

o Calthorpe, Chs. 1 – 3 (posted on Canvas)
### *  Skill Development/Case

### o Layzer, Ch. 5 Community Activism

### 4 2/5 *  Strategy Themes

o Process management and process tools
### o Farr, Ch. 4

o Smart Growth, Mixed use development and Characteristics of sustainable
communities
### o Calthorpe, Ch. 4 & 5

### o Sustainable Pennsylvania Guidance

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Brownfield Site Devt.
### *  Skill Development/Case

o Choose a case from the W. Pa Brownfields Center
https://www.cmu.edu/steinbrenner/brownfields/case-studies/index.html
5 2/12 *  Preliminary Needs Assessment Scope Document Due
### *  Strategy Theme

o Importance of density, corridors
### o Farr, Chs. 5, 6

### *  Dimensional Theme

### o Housing + Transit = New Metric for Sustainable Community

### o Walkability and Walk Score

### o Calthorpe, Chs. 6, 7

### *  Skill Development/Case (choose one)

### o Farr, Holiday Neighborhood, Boulder, CO

### o Farr, Christie Walk, Adelaide, Australia

### o Civano, Tucson, AZ

### o Farr, Kronsberg, Hannover, Germany

6 2/19 *  Strategy Theme
### o From Corridors to Neighborhoods

### o Farr, Ch. 7

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Choices for Future Scenarios: Transit Oriented Development (TOD)
### o Calthorpe, Chs. 8, 9

o Sustainable Business
### *  Midterm Review

### *  Skill Development/Case (choose one)

### o Farr, Dockside Green Victoria, BC

### o Farr, Lloyd Crossing, Portland, OR

### o Farr, Glenwood Park, Atlanta, GA

### o Farr, BedZED, South London

7 2/26 *  Final Needs Assessment Scope Document Due
### *  Strategy Theme

o Regional equitable development
o Stopping gentrification and homogenization
### o Environmental Justice and Equity

### *  Mid-Semester Briefing Due 11:59 pm

### 8 3/5 Mid Semester Break (No Class)

9 3/12 *  Strategy Theme: Sustainable Communities: International Perspectives 1
### o Farr, Ch. 8

### *  Skill Development

o Work on your community projects!
10 3/19 *  Strategy Theme: Green Infrastructure
### o Farr, Ch. 9

### o Farr, Dongtan, Shanghai, China

### o Readings on Canvas

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Stormwater management and waste stream systems
### *  Skill Development

Work on your community projects!
11 3/26 *  Strategy Theme: International Perspectives 2 and Climate Change
### *  Midterm Review

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Climate change – adaptation plans, regional governance & business
### o Calthorpe, Chs. 8, 9

### o ICLEI Climate Action Plans

### o Pittsburgh Climate Action Plan

o CONNECT Community plans
### *  Skill Development/Case

o Work on your community projects!
12 4/2 *  Preliminary Draft of Analysis and Recommendations Due on Canvas
### *  Preparations for final presentations

### *  Strategy Theme

o Latest and greatest TBD from class list
### o Readings on Canvas

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Determined from Class List
### *  Skill Development/Case

Work on your community projects!
### 13 4/9 *  Strategy Theme

o Latest and greatest TBD from class list
### o Readings on Canvas

### *  Dimensional Theme

o Determined from Class List
### *  Skill Development/Case

Work on your community projects!
14 4/16 Final Project Presentations (if needed; otherwise Work on your community
projects!)
15 4/23 *  Final Project Presentations
5/2 *  11:59 pm: Final Project, Final Reflection, and Peer Reviews Due
11