# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, Methods Focus, Students, Thousand Oaks, 25%, i. Rossi, students, CMU, GCC
**Document Length**: 2247 words

---

# 90-823: Program Evaluation S23

Heinz College, CMU
### Instructor:

Coreen Farris, Ph.D.
cfarris@andrew.cmu.edu
### Course Description:

In all parts of the world, governments, funding agencies, organizations, and individuals are
involved in activities meant to improve some aspect of people’s lives – disaster relief in Puerto
Rico, human rights work in Sierra Leone, increasing school attendance in Detroit or improving
outcomes for IV drug users in Barcelona are just a few examples. The needs addressed by these
programs are often compelling and the programs themselves can be innovative and inspired.

From those running and funding social programs to those whose needs are meant to be addressed
by these programs a central question arises:
Does this social program work?

In this course you will learn how to gather and synthesize evidence to address this question.

Program evaluation is the systematic application of social science methods to assess each aspect
of a program: the need for the program, the program's design and implementation, and ultimately
the program’s impact on relevant outcomes. A completed program evaluation results in (a)
information regarding the program’s merit, (b) an accounting of the objective strengths and
limitations of this information and (c) the implications of both (a) and (b) for decision making.

Program evaluations differ as much as the social programs they evaluate. Social programs may
carry out evaluation internally, or an external organization may be brought in. An evaluation
may be highly quantitative or entirely qualitative; it may focus exclusively on needs assessment
or only on outcomes. Evaluations and their results may be highly politically charged or of
interest only to direct stakeholders. There are excellent program evaluations that have had
tremendous positive impacts on programs and their target populations. There are also flawed
program evaluations that provide weaker information than could have been obtained, provide
incorrect information, or are misleading.

This course is designed to familiarize the student with the central concepts and methods of
program evaluation. Students will be taught how to conduct basic program evaluations as well as
how to contribute to, critique, and monitor more comprehensive program evaluations.

Successful completion of this course will prepare students to be productive members of teams
that design and carry out program evaluations or that commission program evaluations and make
decisions based upon their results.

### Learning Objectives:

By the end of this course, successful students will be able to…
### *  Be a valuable member of an evaluation team, able to contribute to both planning and

execution, while having a solid foundation on which to build.
### *  Be an informed consumer of program evaluations, and assist governments, agencies or

funding organizations in making decisions based on evaluations.
### *  Differentiate between strengths, limitations, and weaknesses of an evaluation and

communicate those distinctions clearly.
### *  Understand the methods and concepts introduced in the course, AND be able to explain

them clearly, in plain language, to diverse stakeholders with diverse backgrounds.
### *  Identify when each method for evidence gathering and analysis would be appropriate or

inappropriate and explain those assessments.
*  Demonstrate to a newly elected official how to assess a government program.
### Course Text:

*  Rossi PH, Lipsey MW, Freeman HE. (2019). Evaluation: A Systematic Approach (8th
ed). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications. ISBN: 978-1-5063-0788-6.
### Other Recommended Texts:

*  Thomas VG & Campbell PB (2020). Evaluation in Today’s World: Respecting Diversity,
Improving Quality, and Promoting Usability. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

ISBN: 9781544348162
*  Fowler FJ (2013). Survey Research Methods (5rd ed.). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage
Publications. ISBN: 9781483323596
*  Daniel J (2011). Sampling Essentials: Practical Guidelines for Making Sampling
Choices. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications. ISBN: 9781452238401
### Your Role:

### We are partners in this learning experience. I EXPECT YOU TO:

### *  Conduct your learning with Academic Integrity

(http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html)
### *  Attend class and constructively participate in it

### *  Contribute to and take responsibility for the team project

### *  Do individual assignments & Prepare for exams

*  Pursue your own understanding: What is solid, missing, or vague? What can you do to
make it more solid: attend office hours, participate in Blackboard Discussions, create a
Study Group, review reading, make an appointment with the Instructor or TA…
### Course Grading:

Participation: Class 5%
### Response Papers, Problem Sets, Quizzes: 25%

Team Project: 25%
Midterm exam: 20%
Final exam: 25%

Participation in Classroom: The ability to engage in informed, productive conversations about
program evaluation with multiple stakeholders is essential to success as a funder, consumer, or
conductor of evaluations. Students will have numerous opportunities to practice engaging in
such conversations, to reflect on their contributions, and to improve their performance in class
and on Canvas. Specifics on requirements for full participation credit will be discussed in class.
(5%)
Individual Assignments – Response Papers & Problem Sets: You may discuss the concepts with
others but must write up your own response and note on your Homework the names of those
with whom you discussed. Assignments will be due prior to the start of class; please hand them
in electronically via Canvas before that time. There will be zero credit for late assignments,
instead we will drop the lowest grade for each of the 2 assignment types. (25%)
Midterm and Final Examinations: The midterm exam will cover all course material prior to the
exam. The final exam is cumulative and will cover all course material with a focus on the
material covered in the second half of the semester. On both exams students will be allowed to
use one sheet (both sides) of notes and will need a calculator. (45% total)
Team Project: Propose and Justify a Program Evaluation Design in response to an RFP (25%)
### *  The goal of this group project is to have your team put the concepts, vocabulary, and

methodologies of program evaluation into practice.
### *  The product of this group project will be a substantial written report that clearly describes

your proposed design, gives justification for the design choices and demonstrates how the
design is responsive to/appropriate for the RFP, the program, and the target population.

What your team hands in is expected to be a polished and professional document.
### Attendance and Late Assignment Policies:

Students are expected to attend class or view it asynchronously. Participation is graded.

Students are responsible for all assignments and for all material discussed during class, whether
present or absent. As indicated above, two individual assignments (one of each type) will be
dropped from final grade calculations (the final HW assignment is not eligible for being dropped,
it is required of all students). At your own risk, you may choose to not hand in assignments you
intend to drop – as this option is available to you, we will not accept or grade any late
assignments and no extensions will be granted. Please plan accordingly.

Cheating & Plagiarism
Students are expected to honor the letter and the spirit of the Carnegie Mellon University Policy
on Cheating and Plagiarism. All activities cited in that policy will be treated as cheating in this
course. Students are expected to familiarize themselves with this policy. Students are also
encouraged to review the Carnegie Mellon University Academic Disciplinary Actions Overview
for Graduate Students, which details penalties and sanctions, as well as students’ rights. I will
take a zero-tolerance policy on cheating and plagiarism and will consult with Departmental
leadership on appropriate action for all instances of cheating (including use of AI tools) and

plagiarism. As the aforementioned policies indicate, penalties can include course failure,
suspension, and dismissal from the program.
### Carnegie Mellon University Policy on Cheating and Plagiarism

http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html
Carnegie Mellon University Academic Disciplinary Actions Overview for Graduate Students
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/GradDisc.html
Personal Accommodations
Students with disabilities: If you wish to request an accommodation due to a documented
disability, please inform me and contact Disability Resources as soon as possible. They can be
reached at access@andrew.cmu.edu or (412) 268-2013 and I look forward to talking with you.

Writing Assistance: For assistance with the written or oral communication assignments in this
class, visit the Global Communication Center (GCC). GCC tutors can provide instruction on a
range of communication topics and can help you improve your papers, presentations, and job
application documents. The GCC is a free service, open to all students, and located in Hunt
### Library. You can make tutoring appointments directly on the GCC website:

http://www.cmu.edu/gcc. You may also browse the GCC website to find out about
communication workshops offered throughout the academic year.

Final Remark
### *  Use of electronic devices during class: As research on learning shows, unexpected noises and

movement automatically divert and capture people's attention, which means you are affecting
everyone’s learning experience if your cell phone, pager, laptop, tablet, etc. makes noise or is
visually distracting during class. For this reason, I ask you to turn off your mobile devices, and
use your laptop/tablet only to take notes and/or to access assigned materials.
### Statement Regarding Diversity and Inclusion

We must treat every individual with respect. We at Heinz College are diverse in many
ways, and this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive
campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including
but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation,
gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of
these diverse identities, along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our
students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, and I as your professor, will work
to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence and
innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we
also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a
campus community that increasingly embraces these core values. Each of us is responsible for
creating a safer, more inclusive environment. It is my intent that students from all diverse
backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course, that students’ learning needs be
addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class be
viewed as a resource, strength and benefit.

### Statement of Support for Students’ Health & Well-being

Your graduate school experience might prove to be exciting, stimulating, and enjoyable, but it is
likely to entail stress as well. The University Provost provides the following thoughts for
students. I consider them important.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. There are many helpful resources
available through CMU and an important part of the graduate school experience is learning how
to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is almost always helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website
at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family
member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Sequence of Topics & Readings – subject to change
### I. Program Evaluation: Stages and Methods

a. What is Program Evaluation? Stage 0: Context of Program Evaluation,
Identifying Relevant Questions
### i. Rossi: Chapter 1

ii. Methods Focus (What): Capture-Recapture
### b. Stage 1: Needs Assessment

i. Rossi: Chapter 2 & Case Study; Recommended: Henry: Chapters 1-2;6a;
ii. Methods Focus (How): Probability Sampling I
### c. Stage 2: Program Theory Evaluation

### i. Rossi: Chapter 3 & Case Study

ii. Methods Focus (What): Logic Models; Assessing the Theory
iii. Methods Focus (How): Document Review & Individual Interviews
### d. Stage 3: Process Evaluation

### i. Rossi: Chapter 4 & Case Study

ii. Methods Focus (What): Coverage; Measurement Properties
iii. Methods Focus (How): Administrative Data, Direct Observation and
Focus Groups
### e. Stage 4: Outcome Evaluation – Identifying and Measuring Outcomes

i. Rossi: Chapter 5; Recommended: Fowler: Chapters 4, 5 & 6;
ii. Methods Focus (How): Designing Survey Questions;
iii. Methods Focus (How): Selecting a Survey Mode
f. Stage 4 continued: Outcome Evaluation – Assessing Program Impact I
### i. Rossi: Chapters 6 & 7

ii. Methods Focus (What): Causal Inference, missing counterfactuals
iii. Methods Focus (How): Random Assignment vs. Randomized experiments
g. Stage 4 continued: Outcome Evaluation – Assessing Program Impact II
### i. Rossi: Chapter 8

ii. Methods Focus (How): Non-randomized outcome designs
iii. Methods Focus (How): Estimating counterfactuals in observational
studies; Sources of bias
II. Beyond the Basics & Putting it into Practice
### a. Probability Sampling II

### i. Henry: Chapters 6b & 7a; Fowler: Chapter 2a

ii. Methods Focus: Stratification, Clustering, Calculating Sample Sizes
b. Better than an Observational Study, Not as Good as an Experiment
i. Case Study
### ii. Methods Focus: Regression Discontinuity; Quasi-Experiments;

Instrumental Variables
### c. Interpreting and Presenting Program Evaluation Evidence

### i. Rossi: Chapter 9

### ii. Methods Focus: Over- and Under- Stating Evidence; Moderators and

Mediators
iii. Methods Focus: Multiple Testing problems and fixes (Bonferroni)

### Important Dates:

Midterm Exam: February 27, 2025
Team Project Due Date: April 17, 2025
Final Exam: May 1, 2025