# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, Feb., midnight, Thursday, Friday, Comprehensions, midnight Fri, Homework, LockDown Browser
**Document Length**: 2172 words

---

# Instructor
John K. Ostlund
jostlund@andrew.cmu.edu (or jkostlund@gmail.com)
Hours of availability: 10:00 am to 9:00 pm, 7 days per week, via email and Zoom
I will be available to you as much as I can, 7 days per week, unless I'm traveling.

Office Hours: Via Zoom, every Sunday from 2:00 to 4:00 pm
Lectures: Lectures are pre-recorded and posted on YouTube. There are no live lectures in this
course.

Final Exam: 80 minutes, on Canvas using LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor, Thursday,
Feb. 27 or Friday, Feb. 28, at your choice.

Teaching Assistant
Jingwei Dai jingweid@andrew.cmu.edu
### *  The primary job of the TAs will be to help me with grading homework assignments, and to

answer questions from you about the course material and the homework
### *  They may also hold office hours via Zoom, if they choose to

### Course Title: Python Programming I

Course
Instructor: John K. Ostlund (jostlund@andrew.cmu.edu)
Information
Prerequisites (if
None
applicable)
This course focuses on the fundamentals of computer programming using
the Python 3 interpreted programming language. This course is designed
for students with little or no programming knowledge.

Description*
Students will develop their problem solving skills using the top-down
procedural programming approach to build standalone software
applications. Assignments will include weekly homework, bi-weekly
checkpoint quizzes, and a final examination to test essential programming

and problem solving skills. Some OOP (object oriented programming) will
be used in this course. Learners will study how to build professional, userfriendly computer programs applicable to real-world usage in such areas
as public policy and security analysis.

Software
Anaconda Version 2024.10 including Python 3.12, for Windows, Mac, or
Linux. Please see the READ ME / WATCH ME FIRST Announcement for
further details.
### Online Python Documentation and Tutorial

docs.python.org/3.12/
docs.python.org/3.12/tutorial
Recommended Textbook (expensive, not required, but very good!)
Course
### Materials (if Starting Out with Python, 5th Edition, 2021, Tony Gaddis ISBN-13:

applicable) 9780136679110
Optional Books
Python for Data Analysis: Data Wrangling with Pandas, NumPy, and
Jupyter, 3rd Edition, by Wes McKinney ISBN-13: 978-1098104030
Available for free online from the
author: https://wesmckinney.com/book/
Automate the Boring Stuff with Python: Practical Programming for
Total Beginners (Sweigart, Al) ISBN-13: 978-1593275990, ISBN-10:
1593275994 (available for free on the web)
### The final grade will be out of 100%. The grading breakdown is as follows:

### *  Weekly Homework 20%

### *  Online Quizzes 35%

### *  Final Exam 45%

Evaluation
## Method For each homework assignment, you will be assigned to a team of two or

three people. To get the most from the homework, do as much of the
homework yourself as possible. (As you work on the homework, if you get
stuck, please feel free to ask your teammates, other students, the TAs, or
the professor for help.) Then compare what you did with what your team
members did (and with other students as well, if you wish). Finally, just
one member of your team should submit a zip archive of homework

solutions to Canvas, on behalf of all team members. To get an A on a
homework assignment, your team must get a score of 90 or better out of
100 (we fully expect everyone to get an A on each homework assignment).

Each week, there are also labs available for you to try. These are not
graded, but are useful for practice.

You will need to pass a quiz for each week's material. These quizzes are
on Canvas, and require LockDown Browser and Respondus Monitor. To
get an A on a quiz, you must score 87.5% or better of the available points.

You will have up to 4 chances to get an A on each quiz. Questions are
generated from a large question base, so it is unlikely that you will get
exactly the same questions on each attempt for a given quiz. You are only
permitted to take a given quiz one time per day (if you are unable to get an
A, we expect you to do some review and study prior to your next attempt,
rather than merely rolling the dice and hoping for the best).

The final exam will be like a very long quiz. The final exam will be in
class on Thursday, Feb. 29. You will only have one chance to take the
final exam. The final exam is the only deliverable in the course on which it
will be possible to get an A+, if you are among the very top performers. So
to get an A+ as a course grade, you must get an A+ on the final exam, and A
on most if not all of the homework assignments and quizzes.
### Letter grades have these Heinz standard QPA points:

A+ 4.33 A 4.00 A- 3.67
B+ 3.33 B 3.00 B- 2.67
C+ 2.33 C 2.00 C- 1.67
D+ 1.33 D 1.00 D- 0.67
Suppose your Homework and Quiz average grades are A (which is more or
less expected), and that your Final Exam grade is A-. Then your course
grade QPA would be:
4.00 * 0.20 + 4.00 * 0.35 + 3.67 * 0.45 == 3.8515
I round rather than truncating, so this becomes a course letter grade of A.

In order to get an A+ course letter grade, your course grade QPA must
be > 4.0 (strictly greater than 4.0).

Use the Python Spyder, PyCharm, and/or IDLE integrated development
environment (IDE) in interactive and script mode to both test code
snippets and author professional programs.

Develop problem solving skills through practice and understanding of the
top-down procedural programming and Object Oriented Programming
methodologies.

Perform calculations, evaluate numerical relations and logical
Learning/Course
expressions, manipulate character strings, and utilize Python's decision
Objectives*
and loop structures.

Form and manipulate collections of data (such as lists, tuples, sets, and
dictionaries).

Produce modules of functions for code reuse.

Solve real-world problems using the Python language.

A+ 97.00 – 100.00%
A 93.00 – 96.99%
A- 90.00 – 92.99%
B+ 87.00 – 89.99%
Heinz College
B 83.00 – 86.99%
Grading Scale*
B- 80.00 – 82.99%
C+ 77.00 – 79.99%
C 73.00 – 76.99%
C- 70.00 – 72.99%
*Subject to change, at the professor's discretion

### *  Week 1 - Python Basics

Exponentiation
o
### Unary Plus and Minus

o
### Multiplication, Division, Modulus, and Floor Division

o
Addition and Subtraction
o
Precedence, Associativity, and (...)
o
### The Python Shell and IDLE Integrated Development

o
Environment
### Variables, Assignment, Values, and Comments

o
### Arithmetic and Arithmetic Operators

o
Scalar Data Types: int, float, str, bool, special value None
o
String (str) representation and operations
o
The print() output function
o
The list collection type (a class)
o
Course/Topical
Outline:* for loops and the range() function
o
### *  Week 2 - Slices, if/else Decisions, Programs, Functions, and Input

Sequences and Slices
o
### Object Identity, References, == vs. is

o
if/elif/else Decisions and Indentation Rules
o
### Equality, Inequality, Relational, and Logical Operators

o
User Input: the input() function
o
### Type Conversions and Exceptions

o
The while Loop
o
Writing a Program
o
### Defining and Calling Functions

o
### File Input and Output

o
### *  Week 3 - Review, Modules, tuple, set, and dict

Importing Modules
o

The tuple Sequence
o
The set Collection
o
The dict Dictionary
o
### *  Week 4 - Collection Properties, Defining Modules, and

Comprehensions
### Creating Empty, One Item, Multi Item Collections

o
### Mutable, Iterable, Sortable, Sliceable Collections

o
Collection Conversions and the zip() Function
o
Defining Well-Structured Modules
o
list Comprehensions
o
### *  Week 5 - More Comprehensions, Collection Conversions, String

Handling
Letter Case
o
Justification
o
split() and join()
o
### Counting, Finding, and Replacing Substrings

o
Formatting
o
Conversions among list, tuple, set, and dict types
o
More list Comprehensions
o
set and dict Comprehensions
o
String (str) Handling
o
### *  Week 6 - NumPy, Statistics, and Visualization

NumPy N-dimensional Arrays
o
Vectorized Mathematics
o
### Statistics and Random Number Generators

o
Visualization with matplotlib
o
Final Exam on Thursday, Feb. 27 or Friday, Feb. 28, as you
o
choose
### * Subject to change

## Week 1: Homework 1 due before midnight Mon., Jan. 20

## Week 2: Pass Quiz 1 before midnight Fri., Jan. 24

Homework 2 due before midnight Mon., Jan. 27
## Week 3: Pass Quiz 2 before midnight Fri., Jan. 31

Homework 3 due before midnight Mon., Feb. 3
## Week 4: Pass Quiz 3 before midnight Fri., Feb. 7

Homework 4 due before midnight Mon., Feb. 10
Schedule
## Week 5: Pass Quiz 4 before midnight Fri., Feb. 12

Homework 5 due before midnight Mon., Feb. 17
## Week 6: Pass Quiz 5 before midnight Fri., Feb. 21

Homework 6 due before midnight Mon., Feb. 24
Final Exam on Thursday, Feb. 27 or Friday, Feb. 28, as you
choose
### Assignment Submission:

Homework Assignments will be due at 11:59 pm U.S. Eastern Standard
Time (EST) on Monday each week. Just one member of each homework
team must post the team's zip archive of solution files to Canvas prior to
the deadline. Late homework will lose points rapidly, as described in
the instructions for each assignment.

If you experience upload problems with Canvas, email me your work for
grading.

Course Policies
& Expectations
### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access
to educational opportunities for all students. CMU and your instructors
are committed to your success and to supporting Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and the Americans with
Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is
otherwise qualified shall be excluded from participation in, be denied
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or
activity, solely by reason of having a disability.

If you believe that you need accommodations for a disability, please
contact us ASAP, and we will work together to ensure that you have the
correct access to resources on campus to assist you through your
coursework and time at CMU.
### Academic Integrity:

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity.

Those standards are supported and enforced by students, including those
who serve as academic integrity hearing panel members and hearing
officers. The presumptive sanction for a first offense is course failure,
accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the Academic
Integrity Policy.” The standard sanction for a first offense by graduate
students may be suspension or expulsion. Please
see http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/ for any questions.
### Cell Phones, Smartphones and other handheld wireless devices:

Other than during class breaks, please silence ring tones and refrain from
engaging in calls, messaging or other use during class time. All devices
must not be visible during quizzes.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the
acquisition of concepts, presentation format, and accuracy of
information. Having done business in countries that use languages other
than English, we understand that the use of an unfamiliar language can
result in unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are not critical
to the overall understanding of the information. Therefore, we will take into
account your need to function in a language that may be unfamiliar to you.

We will provide feedback as appropriate if we feel that language or
grammar you have used in assignments would be best if it were configured
in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

The Heinz School uses Carnegie Mellon University’s Canvas system to
facilitate distance learning as well as to enhance main campus courses. In
this course, we will use the Canvas system generally to post lecture notes

and related documents and to receive assignments electronically from
students.
### Take care of yourself:

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking
some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with
stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone.

There are many helpful resources available on campus and an important
part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone you
know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/.

Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for
help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm,
call someone immediately, day or night:
### *  CaPS: 412-268-2922

### *  Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226

### *  If the situation is life threatening, call the police:

On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
o
Off campus: 911
o
If you have questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.