# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, MVP, students, market, Optional, student-entrepreneurs, Students, lean innovation frameworks, ### Phase, product
**Document Length**: 1251 words

---

# Social Entrepreneurship
90-445; 90-845
### Description:

The social-impact Lean Innovation Lab (“Social Entrepreneurship”) is a continuation of the course
Entrepreneurship: A New Venture, designed to challenge students to tackle longstanding and emerging
problems across the Learn-Earn-Career landscape (i.e. the Future of Work, Learning, Connection, and
Opportunity). Students will have the option to select from a set of carefully curated, complex and
real-world problem set(s) and/or introduce their own problem sets within the thematic focus. Students will
be presented with the option of working as an embedded “frontend innovator” within an established
organization (driving new-product and corporate innovation) or developing a solution to their problem
statement as an independent new startup venture.

Students will learn to apply lean innovation frameworks and tools to develop a foresight positioning and
data-driven thesis and will use applied anthropology, ethnography, and quantitative analysis to develop
conviction for an idea through the business invention process. A central component to the Innovation Lab
is learning to synthesize and apply concepts and techniques from the Innovation Studio Process
framework and across three distinctive phases:
### Phase I: Venture Design

Rapid, systematic approach to research, define, envision and assess the best path forward for a new
venture, product, service or experience.

Research, Direction, Foundation and Investment.
### Phase 2: Venture Build

Increased speed to market through focused sprints, and data collection and analysis, with a tailored team
that matches the challenge.

Team Setup, Design Sprints, Development Sprints, Data Analysis/Development
### Phase 3: Venture Growth

A lean, iterative method to market validation through tracking and testing.

Launch, Scale, Measure
### Learning Objectives:

### Knowledge, experiences, and skills students are expected to gain throughout the course include:

The Innovator’s Mindset
An exploration of the deeply personal rationale and reasoning for exploring a problem statement/set,
gaining hands-on experience evaluating categories, relevant problems and in close collaboration with
peers, instructors and problem sponsors. Learn to optimize your personal resources towards the
commitments that best fulfill your potential and demonstrated passion, while learning to understand the
various lenses through which an entrepreneur identifies opportunity.
### Discovery and Business Validation

Learn to recognize and develop strategic foresight - brand and business positioning statements - by
applying customer discovery, problem assessment, and opportunity mapping. Apply critical discovery
skills to validate the market to competitively position your venture. Learn to apply design thinking to

hypothesize a differentiated solution that solves customer pain-points and stands apart within the
business category (industry).
### MVP and Business Model

Apply lean startup Build-Measure-Learn methodology to develop a minimal viable service, experience,
product (MVP). Develop and/or validate the value proposition and conduct business model canvassing to
understand the impact on company construct. Outline the key milestones (development/design sprints)
that will navigate the new venture to an MVP (high-level business, product, brand roadmap). Pivot or
preserve the new venture. Lean to select and demonstrate hypotheses, discovery, information gathering
and hypothesis testing.

Financial Viability
Financial viability and developing an economic outlook. Learn to recognize the need for financial acuity to
inform pricing, revenue streams, organizational construct, business go-to-market, and the protection of
“key activities”, including intellectual property. Learn to read, understand and apply the fundamentals of
startup finance, including unit economics, proforma P&L, projections, and capital versus operational
budgeting. Explore how to roadmap capital needs to the new venture MVP. Lean application of extracting
insights from relationships and systems to properly vet design and curate development.
### Product Development, GTM, and Effective Pitching

Develop a step-by-step plan, in alignment with your Roadmap, that outlines how you intend to take your
product, service, or experience venture to market. Learn the critical components to go-to-market,
including customer acquisition, brand placement, and partnership and investor development. Learn the
various methods by which a new venture may growth and/or be capitalized. Learn how to develop and
shape an effective pitch to a tailored audience.
### Pre-Requisites:

There are no hard prerequisite requirements for this course with exception for the student-entrepreneur
completing the “20-10-10” analysis prior to the start of course and/or submitting their personal statement
that aligns their course of study with a detailed definition (qualification) of the problem they aspire to solve
through entrepreneurship.

Optional, and encouraged, prerequisite include lean innovation frameworks (completion of
Entrepreneurship: A New Venture and/or Lean Innovation Lab: 94891) financial analysis, management
science I, project management, product management.
### Key Topics:

Building a scalable business requires the right architecture and a deep understanding of the category,
market drivers, consumers and technology servicing the category. Key topics for the course include, but
are not limited to, the following:
### ● Lean Innovation Frameworks

### ● Ethnographic Frameworks and Analysis

### ● Market Sizing and Category Implications

### ● Developing Strategic Foresight and Category Thesis

### ● Information and Venture Architecture

### ● Business Modeling and Proforma

### ● Design and Development Sprints

### ● Strategic Communications and Business Negotiation

### ● Team Setup, Recruitment, and Founding Team

### ● Rapid Prototyping and Product Development

### ● Product Launch, Partnerships and Joint Venture

### Prerequisite Knowledge:

There are no hard prerequisite requirements for this course with exception for the student-entrepreneur
completing the “20-10-10” analysis prior to the start of course and/or submitting their personal statement
that aligns their course of study with a detailed definition (qualification) of the problem they aspire to solve
through entrepreneurship.

Optional, and encouraged, prerequisite include lean innovation frameworks (completion of
Entrepreneurship: A New Venture and/or Lean Innovation Lab: 94891) financial analysis, management
science I, project management, product management.
### Course Relevance:

Explore strategies and methods for entrepreneurs to create impact in the world beyond shareholder value
while creating a unique experiential learning opportunity for student-entrepreneurs to better understand
their unique and innate skills and foresight and how both can help mobilize them towards more equitable
economic opportunities. Learn to evaluate opportunities, understand and quantify problems, identify
opportunities and develop (foresight) theses, build business cases, develop core competencies required
in any business environment, and establish credibility when seeking customers, funding, team-members
and partnerships.
### Course Goals:

Provide student-entrepreneurs with the skills, knowledge, outlook and confidence to explore their
entrepreneurial pursuits, present themselves and their ideas to accelerators and the incubator community,
and/or develop the skills, foresight and portfolio to successfully market themselves to in-demand
employers.
### Assessment Structure:

This class is primarily team-based, although students are expected to complete several individual
assignments. Teams will be formed around ideas and tasks proposed by students and/or
entrepreneur-instructors. Projects are framed as real business innovations, so the workload may be
intense, per the expectations of each team.
● 60% teamwork and group assignment (including presentation time)
● 30% individual assignment, based on case-study review
● 10% active class participation in discussion, feedback, and case-study deliberation
### Learning Resources:

Required Readings
Aulet, William. Disciplined Entrepreneurship & Disciplined Entrepreneurship Workshop Molick, Ethan.

Founders in the Unicorn’s Shadow. Future Laboratory Future Forecasts and Micro-Reports.

Recommended Readings
Mendelson, Jason. How to Raise Money.

Morris, Dave. The Wav of Improvisation.

Skok, David. Startup Killer: The Cost of Customer Acquisition Elsbach, K. How to Pitch a Brilliant Idea
Masters, Blake. Zero to One.
### Extra Time Commitments:

The pace of coursework and level of extra-time commitment is unique to each student-entrepreneur and
the problem they aspire to solve through entrepreneurship and/or innovation management. Aside from
course goals, students are expected to receive considerable advisory from the instructor and industry
entrepreneurs hand-selected to provide mentorship and advice to student-entrepreneurs. It is the
instructor’s expectation that student-entrepreneurs reciprocate extracurricular hours of commitment in-line
with the student-entrepreneurs’ own expectations and definition of success.