# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 5PM, Monday, EST, Canvas, Map, 5PM EST, GIS, GIS Tutorial, *  Work
**Document Length**: 2460 words

---

# 90-434, 90-834
Geospatial Health Analytics, Spring 2025
### Carnegie Mellon University, Heinz College

http:/www.cmu.edu/canvas
Teaching Staff
### Instructor:

*  Professor Kristen Kurland: kurland@andrew.cmu.edu
Office hours by appointment
### Teaching Assistants:

### *  TBA

Office hours TBA on Canvas
Course Description
A Geographic Information System (GIS) provides storage, retrieval, and visualization of
geographically referenced data as well as design and analysis of spatial information. GIS
provides unique analytical tools to investigate spatial relationships, patterns, and processes of
cultural, biological, demographic, economic, social, environmental, health care, and other
phenomena. The course includes lecture topics, computer tutorials, and a project using the
leading desktop GIS software, ArcGIS Pro, ArcGIS Online, Story Maps, and selected apps, from
### Esri, Inc. Subject areas include:

### *  Geographic concepts (world coordinate systems, map scale/projections, sea

level/elevation),
### *  Government-provided map infrastructure (TIGER maps, census data, satellite and aerial

photo images, local government cadastral maps),
### *  Map design (cartographics, interactive maps, map animations, and Web-based GIS),

### *  Geodatabases (importing spatial and attribute data, geocodes, table joins, data

aggregation, and map queries),
### *  Creation of spatial data (digitizing, geocoding, and dissolving vector features),

### *  Spatial data processing (clipping, merging, appending, joining, dissolving),

### *  Spatial analysis (proximity analysis, risk surface, site suitability, spatial data mining),

### *  Macros (form-based tools, flowchart-based design, user interface),

### *  Raster GIS (hill shade, kernel density estimation, risk index modeling, raster queries),

### *  Data mining and cluster analysis (multivariate analysis using centroid models and kmeans algorithm)

### *  Network analysis (traveling salesman problem, multi-vehicle routing problem, Huff

gravity model location of facilities).
### *  Dashboards (visual displays of data feeds in an easy-to-understand format, with a map as

the center of focus)
### Learning Objectives:

## 1. Develop an understanding of the world’s quickly-growing spatial location data

infrastructure and how to put it to work for producing location-based health and
environmental health information.
## 2. Identify the relevant spatial characteristics of health application areas enabling

professionals to integrate spatial thinking and GIS analysis into their health,
environmental health, and related careers.
## 3. Become a skillful user of GIS software.

## 4. Have the ability to use geospatial technologies to gain a significant advantage in the

information technology field, describing the spatial relationships of topics related to
health IT and geospatial analytics.

Objectives are met and assessed through weekly homework assignments, three quizzes, and a
GIS project.
### Course Materials:

*  GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 3.1, Edition: by W.L. Gorr & K.S. Kurland, (2023),
https://www.esri.com/en-us/esri-press/browse/gis-tutorial-for-arcgis-pro-3-1
*  Video lectures provided on Canvas or via external links.
*  Readings and external links provided as PDF files for selected topics.
*  ArcGIS Pro software: Version 3.3 - Available from Heinz Computing Services or via
Virtual Andrew. It is strongly recommended that you install the software on your own
computer.
*  GIS data copied from Canvas.
### Grade Allocation:

Homework (11 assignments) 55%
Quizzes (3 quizzes) 25%
GIS Project 20%
### Grade Interpretation Points, Credit Toward Graduation

A+ 98% to 100% Exceptional 4.33
A 93% to 97.99% Excellent 4.00
A- 90% to 92.99% Very Good 3.67
B+ 87% to 89.99% Good 3.33
B 83% to 86.99% Acceptable 3.00
B- 80% to 82.99% Fair 2.67
C+ 77% to 79.99% Poor 2.33
C 73% to 76.99% Very Poor 2.00
C- 70% to 72.99% Minimal Passing 1.67
R less than 70% Failing 0.00
CIT Graduate student Grade Interpretation Points, Credit Toward Graduation
A 93% to 97.99% Excellent 4.00
A- 90% to 92.99% Very Good 3.67
B+ 87% to 89.99% Good 3.33
B 83% to 86.99% Acceptable 3.00
B- 80% to 82.99% Fair 2.67
C+ 77% to 79.99% Poor 2.33
C 73% to 76.99% Very Poor 2.00
C- 70% to 72.99% Minimal Passing 1.67
R less than 70% Failing 0.00
### Course Communication and Chapter Tutorials:

Clarification and discussion of GIS course materials are not limited just to lectures. Also
provided are weekly office hours, and Canvas discussion boards. These discussion boards are for
you to interact with others in the course, post questions about assignment clarifications, general
comments, and notices of items of interest.

The teaching staff will check the discussion boards between Monday-Friday 9AM to 5PM
Eastern Standard Time. Please plan your time accordingly so questions can be answered in a
timely manner.

The teaching staff will NOT answer assignment and project questions through email or text
messages that would have benefit for the class, but instead will monitor the Canvas discussion
boards and respond to questions there.
## Chapter tutorials in the required textbook are the main mode of learning the GIS software.

Tutorial work is not graded unless otherwise indicated and is strictly for you to learn GIS. If the
teaching staff determine that you have not worked through a tutorial before starting
corresponding assignments, we will not answer assignment questions on basics covered in the
tutorial.
### Policy on Collaboration and Cheating:

This course follows the Heinz College policies on ethics and discipline as stated in student
handbooks. A specific policy of this course is as follows:
Homework assignments—Homework must be individual work unless otherwise stated. You
may consult each other on clarification, technical and conceptual issues, but you must do
individual problem solving and derive your own solutions, including your own work.

You are not permitted to be in possession of any assignments from another student or other
source either from the current semester or from past semesters whether they are electronic or
paper. Possession of or sharing such files constitutes an infraction of the academic integrity
policies of this course.

Quizzes—Quizzes are online and completed as an honor system. You must complete quizzes on
your own. Collaboration of any type is considered cheating and if discovered will result in
academic actions.
### Late Homework Policy:

### *  GIS assignments build upon each other, so it is important to be up to date on your

assignments.
*  All assignments are due at 5pm Eastern Standard Time unless otherwise noted. Please
see the course calendar and syllabus for all due dates.
*  Late assignments result in a score of zero points.
### *  However, you can turn in one assignment 48 hours late but must be done with prior

notification to professor and all Tas.
### Grading questions:

Assignment rubrics contain solutions as well as feedback and scores for your assignments. You
will not receive these before assignments are due but will see your scores on Canvas once each
assignment has been graded and grades are released.

If you believe that there was an error in grading an assignment, please contact the TAs to resolve
the issue. If you cannot resolve the issue to your satisfaction with the TAs, then please send an
email message to me with the issue.

Re-grading of an assignment must be required within 5 days after it was returned, otherwise we
will not re-grade the assignment.
### University's policy on accommodations:

Accommodations, academic adjustments, and auxiliary aids and services (collectively
“accommodations”) are provided to students with disabilities, as required by the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other applicable federal, state and
local laws. Please refer to CMU’s website for information.
### Health and wellness:

Carnegie Mellon University and I believe in hard work but a balanced lifestyle. Do your best to
maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol,
getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and
cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many
helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning
how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful. If you or anyone
you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services
(CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Diversity Statement
We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community.

Diversity can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race,
color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion,
creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities,
along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and
staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not
only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice.

We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside
of our classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces
these core values.

Class Schedule
(subject to change)
## Week 1, Introduction to GIS and ArcGIS Pro

Assignment #1 assigned, due 5PM EST, Monday, 1/20
Required Video Lectures
### *  GIS Overview

### *  Analytical Tools

### *  Software Course “Map”

### *  ArcGIS Pro Overview

Optional Video Lecture
### *  History of GIS

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 1

*  Get an introduction to ArcGIS.
*  Get an introduction to the ArcGIS Pro user interface.
*  Learn to navigate maps.
*  Work with tables of attribute data.
*  Get an introduction to symbolizing and labeling maps.
*  Work with 2D and 3D maps.
## Week 2, Map design

Assignment #2 assigned, due 5PM EST, Monday, 1/27
Required Video Lectures
### *  Cartography and map design principles

### *  Map types

### *  Symbolizing maps

### *  Colors

### *  Numeric scales

### *  Feature labels and additional guidelines

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 2

*  Symbolize maps using qualitative attributes and add labels.
*  Use definition queries to create a subset of map features.
*  Symbolize maps using quantitative attributes.
*  Learn about 3D scenes.
*  Symbolize maps using graduated and proportional point symbols.
*  Create normalized maps with custom scales.
*  Create dot density maps.
*  Add visibility ranges for interactive map use.
## Week 3, Maps for end users

Assignment #3 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday, 2/3
Quiz 1 assigned, due 5PM EST, Monday 2/3
(covers lectures 1-3)
Required Video Lectures
### *  GIS Projects and traditional outputs

### *  Map layouts and story maps

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 3

*  Build map layouts and charts.
*  Share maps in ArcGIS Online.
### *  Use Map Viewer in ArcGIS Online

*  Use ArcGIS StoryMaps℠.
### *  Use ArcGIS Dashboards

## Week 4, File Geodatabases

Assignment #4 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday 2/10
Required Video Lectures
### *  Attribute tables and queries

### *  Table and spatial joins

### *  Geodatabases

### *  Calculating geometry

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 4

*  Import data into file geodatabases.
*  Modify attribute tables and fields.
*  Use Python expressions to calculate fields.
*  Join tables.
*  Get an introduction to SQL query criteria.
*  Carry out attribute queries.
*  Aggregate point data to polygon summary data.
## Week 5, Spatial data

Assignment #5 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday 2/17
Required Video Lectures
### *  Map projections

### *  Map coordinate systems

### *  Spatial data formats

### *  US Census geographic files

### *  US Census data tables

### *  Other Geospatial data sources

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 5

*  Work with world map projections.
*  Work with US map projections.
*  Set a projected coordinate system.
*  Work with vector data formats.
*  Work with US Census Bureau spatial and tabular data.
*  Explore sources of spatial data.
## Week 6, Geoprocessing

Assignment #6 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday 2/24
Quiz 2 assigned, due 5PM EST, Monday 2/24
(covers lectures 4-6)
Required Video Lectures
### *  Attribute proximity selections

### *  Geoprocessing overview

### *  Append and merge

### *  Union and Intersect

### *  Tabulate intersection

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 6

### *  Dissolve block group polygons to create neighborhoods and fire battalions and

divisions.
*  Extract a neighborhood using attributes to form a study area.
*  Extract features from other map layers using the study area.
*  Merge water features to create a single water map.
*  Append separate fire and police station layers to one layer.
*  Intersect streets and fire companies to assign street segments to fire companies.
### *  Union neighborhood and land-use boundaries to create detailed polygons on

neighborhood land-use characteristics.
*  Apportion data between two polygon map layers whose boundaries do not align.
## Week 7

Assignment #7 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Friday, 2/28
Esri Map Viewer and Data Axle tutorial
## Week 8, Geocoding

Assignment #8 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday, 3/17
Required Video Lectures
### *  Geocoding overview

### *  Address matching

### *  Linear address matching

### *  Polygon address matching

### *  Address matching problems solutions

### *  Geocoding Sources

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 8

*  Learn about the geocoding process.
*  Geocode using zip codes.
*  Geocode addresses using streets.
## Week 9, Spatial analysis

Assignment #9 assigned due 5PM, EST, Monday 3/24
Required Video Lectures
### *  Proximity buffers

### *  Multiple ring buffers

### *  Data mining cluster analysis

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 9

*  Use buffers for proximity analysis.
### *  Use multiple-ring buffers

### *  Create service areas to estimate a gravity model of demand versus distance from

nearest facility.
*  Optimally locate facilities using ArcGIS Network Analyst™.
*  Perform cluster analysis to explore multidimensional data.
## Week 10, Raster GIS

Assignment #10 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday 3/31
Quiz 3 assigned, due 5PM EST, Wednesday 4/2
(covers lectures 8-10)
Required Video Lectures
### *  Extract and symbolize raster maps

### *  Create hillshade maps

### *  Smooth point spatial data with kernel density smoothing

### *  Build a raster-based risk index

### GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: Chapter 10

*  Extract and symbolize raster maps.
*  Create hillshade maps.
*  Smooth point data with kernel density smoothing.
*  Build a raster-based risk index.
*  Build a model for automatically creating risk indices.
## Week 11, Dashboards

Assignment #11 assigned, due 5PM, EST, Monday 4/7
GIS project proposal, due 5PM EST Thursday 4/10
Weeks 12-14, Final Project
### *  Data cleaning process log, due 5PM EST Wednesday, 4/16

### *  GIS final project data, report, presentation slides, Story Map, and final process log, due

5PM EST Friday, 4/25