# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, class, students, Students, Laura W. Synnott, the course, Microsoft Project, Project Management Syllabus, Instructor
**Document Length**: 4927 words

---

### H. JOHN HEINZ III COLLEGE | CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

PROJECT MANAGEMENT SPRING 2025 – 94813 A3 / B3
# COURSE SYLLABUS

# INSTRUCTOR TEACHING ASSISTANTS

Laura W. Synnott Cecilia Chen: sixuanch@andrew.cmu.edu
Associate Teaching Professor Nick Helms: nhelms@andrew.cmu.edu
2107B Hamburg Hall Lehan Xu: lehanx@andrew.cmu.edu
synnott@cmu.edu
Office Hours: By Appointment TA Office Hours (Zoom): Will be posted on the Canvas
Announcements page. Students sign up via a Google Sheet.
# COURSE DESCRIPTION

As organizations continue to look for ways to reduce costs, managers are often expected to oversee special
projects in addition to their traditional responsibilities. When a project is too complex for one person to handle,
the project manager is expected to lead a team of diverse employees to complete the assignment. This course
will assist the project manager to break down a complex project into manageable segments, lead a diverse project
team, and use effective tools to ensure that the project meets its deliverables and is completed within budget and
on schedule. Over the course of the mini, students will complete a plan for an actual project, giving them valuable
experience with the relevant tools and skills, including Microsoft Project software.
# COURSE OBJECTIVES HOW ASSESSED

Upon completion of this course, the student will be
able to:
### *  Implement the key steps involved in managing a *  Assignments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

project
### *  Organize the project into manageable components *  Assignments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

### *  Successfully lead project teams and work with *  Assignments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

stakeholders *  Class Participation
### *  Use effective tools to oversee and monitor complex *  Assignments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6

projects
### *  Develop project budgets and schedules *  Assignments 3,4

### *  Bring complex projects to successful completion *  Assignment 6

### *  Use Microsoft Project to create a project plan and *  Assignment 5

monitor progress
### *  Develop a comprehensive project plan which is *  Assignment 6

ready for implementation
### *  Analyze and apply lessons from other actual projects *  Class Participation

### This document is divided into three components, each beginning on the following pages:

### *  Page 1: Course purpose, expectations, instructions, grading, and deadlines

### *  Page 7: Support and resources

### *  Page 9: Course daily schedule and due dates

# COURSE STRUCTURE AND MODALITY

The modality for all sections of this course is In Person Expectation (IPE). However, this is a “flipped” course
format, and most lectures have been videotaped and are to be viewed asynchronously on Canvas prior to the date
noted on the syllabus. Class sessions (in person at scheduled times) will be for discussion of concepts, cases,
exercises, current events and providing examples of completed assignments.

# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

# COURSE ANNOUNCEMENTS AND DISCUSSION BOARD POSTS

Students are responsible for ensuring that they receive all notifications regarding the course. As such they need to
go to Canvas / Account (Upper Left) / Notifications then select the checkmarks next to three areas:
Announcement, Discussion and Discussion Post. There is also a Canvas app that provides notifications regarding
the course.
# CLASS ATTENDANCE

Attendance at classes is critical for successful completion of the course. Students will be expected to watch prerecorded lectures and download relevant course materials from Canvas prior to class. The professor frequently
provides verbal explanations, clarification and instructions regarding concepts, assignments, and course
deliverables during class time. Examples of project plans may also be reviewed and discussed during class. It is
assumed that students will attend every class in its entirety and take notes in order to ensure that they do not
miss this essential part of the course. Since students will be expected to view lectures outside of course time,
there will be fewer required in-class sessions as noted on the syllabus.
# MICROSOFT PROJECT TUTORIAL

By the end of this course, students are expected to have acquired basic skills with Microsoft Project, a commonly
used project management software product employed in many industries. A tutorial will be held either during
class or asynchronously.
# REQUIRED SOFTWARE

### Students are required to use two software programs for this class:

### *  Miro (a web-based program) and

### *  Microsoft Project Professional 2019 or 2021 (this software can either be installed or accessed via the

Heinz Virtual Lab).

Both Miro and Microsoft Project are free for CMU students. Instructions are available on Canvas under Modules.

Please be sure to read the detailed instructions posted on Canvas!

For Microsoft Project: At the end of the drop/add period, I will be sending a list of non-Heinz students to Heinz
Computing Services so that those students can gain access to the Heinz Virtual Lab. Please test this process at the
well before the assignment is due so that you have time to contact Heinz Computing Services (heinzcomputing@andrew.cmu.edu) if you experience any problems. Note that the office is not staffed after regular
business hours.
# ETHICAL STANDARDS

Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards with respect to plagiarism and cheating. Neither
plagiarism nor cheating will be tolerated on any exercises, quizzes, exams or assignments. Students may
collaborate with others only when expressly permitted by the instructor. Students who violate academic
standards will at a minimum receive a failing grade for the assignment and may also receive a failing grade for the
course. Such cases will be referred to the Associate Dean, who may decide to take further action.
# STUDENTS MAY NOT USE GENERATIVE AI IN ANY FORM

To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself, without
any use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate any content (text,
video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off any AI generated content as
your own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a
violation of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course
please email or talk to me.
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

# REQUIRED READINGS

There is no required textbook for the class. Students are, however, required to read cases that will be discussed in
class and are available on Canvas.

Many students prefer to supplement class lectures with readings, so the following books are recommended, but
are not available in the CMU bookstore:
*  Pinto, Jeffrey K., Project Management, Achieving Competitive Advantage (5nd Edition), Prentice Hall 2019
I ISBN-10: 0136065619 I ISBN-13: 978-0136065616
### *  Project Management Institute, A Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK Guide) (7th Edition)

*  Mantel, Samuel J., Jack R. Meredith, Scott M. Shafer, Margaret M. Sutton, Project Management in
Practice (7th Edition), Wiley 2020
# OFFICE HOURS AND QUESTIONS REGARDING THE ASSIGNMENTS

The teaching assistants (TAs) will hold weekly office hour sessions on Zoom throughout the mini for students to
ask questions about the assignments. All other questions regarding the course or assignments should be posted to
the Canvas discussion board. In this way, all students will be able to review answers to other questions. All
students are required to monitor the discussion board on a frequent basis to ensure that they have up to date
information since the board is also used to post clarifications regarding the assignments. It is suggested that each
student subscribe to each of the seven threads to be notified of posts. The instructor and the TAs will be checking
the discussion board Monday-Friday and occasionally on weekends. Please note that questions received via email or phone, and last minute questions regarding an assignment will not be answered. Personal questions
regarding the course should be directed to the instructor.
# USE OF ELECTRONIC DEVICES

Laptops, tablets, cell phones and other electronic devices are not permitted in class. There are two reasons for
this:
### *  Research on learning shows that unexpected noises and movement automatically divert and capture

people's attention, which means you are affecting everyone’s learning experience if your cell phone,
laptop, etc. makes noise or is visually distracting during class.
### *  The use of electronic devices in past sections of Project Management has demonstrated that they are too

distracting for students and can have an adverse effect on class performance.

There will be specific days when students will be working on assignments during class sessions, and there will be
advance notice that laptops would be permitted on those days.
# RECORDING OF CLASS SESSIONS

No student may record or tape any classroom activity without the express written consent of the instructor. If a
student believes that he/she is disabled and needs to record or tape classroom activities, he/she should contact
the Office of Equal Opportunity Services, Disability Resources to request an appropriate accommodation.

For this course, I will be recording class sessions and making them available to you after classes for your personal,
educational use. Recordings of class sessions are covered under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA) and must not be shared with anyone outside your course-section. The purpose of these recordings is so
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions. The recordings
are not a substitute for coming to class (you won’t be able to join class remotely), and they will only become
available after that day’s class sections are finished. Feel free to use the recordings if you would like to review
something we discussed in class or if you are temporarily unable to attend class.
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

# COURSE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

Student performance will be evaluated based on performance in two categories, Project Plan Assignments and
### Course Engagement:

Project Plan Assignments
Students will be asked to complete a comprehensive project plan incorporating lectures, class discussions,
cases, and Microsoft Project software. Since this is the primary deliverable of the class, it is weighted the most
heavily. The project plan is broken into seven assignments, worth 90% of the student grade.

Project Selection: Select a group project that has been completed and on which you worked in some capacity,
and develop a Project Plan for that project. (This is not a group assignment.) Refer to sample documents on
Canvas for templates of many of the required components for your Project Plan, in addition to examples given
in class. Examples of appropriate projects include:
*  a group assignment at school,
*  a group project at work,
*  planning an event
*  developing a program or training, etc.

The project needs to have a minimum of 10 tasks (preferably more) and should have duration of at least two
weeks. No two students can select the same project, so please check with other team members to ensure that
they aren’t planning to use the same project for their assignments.

It is highly recommended that you go to office hours after the first class to speak with a TA about the
appropriateness of your project for the course.

Assignment Grading Methodology: Each assignment of the Project Plan will be graded according to the
rubrics which are included in the second part of this document, “Project Plan Assignments.” The rubrics for
each assignment outline what meets and does not meet requirements, and are used for Canvas grading. Be
sure to follow the rubrics in the syllabus and make sure you complete the necessary components, then you
can view the Canvas rubrics to see point distribution before you submit your assignment. All templates
presented in class must be followed.
### Each assignment is worth 100 points and required components will be graded as follows:

### *  Meets Requirements: The assignment meets the basic requirements in all areas outlined on the rubric

### *  Does Not Meet Requirements: The assignment doesn’t meet basic requirements, is incorrect or is

incomplete.
### *  Exceeds Requirements: Those assignments which go over and above requirements will receive higher

scores. Students will need to show initiative in finding ways to exceed requirements; they are not
provided in the rubrics. Some assignments do not lend themselves to exceeding requirements, but since
final grades are curved, students are not penalized for those assignments. Examples of ways that exceed
requirements include but are not limited to:
in-depth analysis, exceptional writing, and other demonstration of additional effort
o
thoroughness and comprehensive descriptions
o
inclusion of additional project plan components which are covered in class, or which the student
o
researches on his or her own time
Additional detail, analysis and components which require the most effort will receive the most credit. Note
that any additional components or analyses need to be accurate and complete to receive credit. Also, they
should be provided at the time that they are relevant to the assignment (for example, comprehensive budget
calculations and explanations should be provided when the budget is due).
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

Note that actual project plans submitted by former students are sometimes used in class and TA office hours
as examples, but since such plans were submitted in prior semesters, they do not necessarily meet current
assignment instructions. Always refer to the assignment instructions in the syllabus for current semester
requirements.
### Project Submission Instructions:

## 1. For all assignments, please save your files with your last name in the title (for example,

“SmithProjectPlan1.pdf”).
## 2. If you make any assumptions in the development of any part of your project plan, please put those

assumptions in writing in a Word or PDF document and submit the document with your assignment.
## 3. For Assignment 5 Only: For this Microsoft Project (MSP) assignment, submit the entire Microsoft Project

file to Canvas by the deadline outlined on the syllabus, and name the MSP file with your last name in the
title (“SmithMSProject.msp”).
### Late Assignments:

Points will be taken off for late and incomplete submissions. A late assignment is one that is not submitted by
the due date at 6:00pm, evidenced by the Canvas time stamp. An incomplete assignment is missing key
components.

Students should notify the instructor if they intend to submit their assignment late, but point deductions will
still occur. No late assignments will be accepted after 6:00pm on the following day (24 hours after the
posted deadline).
### Point deductions:

*  10 points (Late): Assignment was late but all requirements and versions were submitted before the
late deadline at 6:00pm.
*  (Incomplete): An assignment component is absent by the late deadline at 6:00pm and will be scored
based on what is submitted.
*  100 points (Missing): Nothing is submitted before the late deadline at 6:00pm.

Course Engagement
There are three components to the course engagement score: Preparation, attendance and participation.

Experience has shown that the class engagement score can often increase or decrease a student’s final course
grade.

Attendance plays a critical role in course performance, and it is taken at the start of class. Students are
permitted one absence during the mini, which can be used for illness, travel, a job interview or other
reason. Additional absences will result in a lower score, including classes missed the first week of the
course. If you are facing extraordinary circumstances, please email me at synnott@cmu.edu so that I may be
of assistance in ensuring that you don’t fall behind in your coursework.

Students are expected to consistently participate in class discussions throughout the mini. It is also evidenced
by coming to class prepared to discuss assigned cases or current events. The instructor will assess
participation throughout the course as follows:
a. Low: Does not or rarely participates
b. Medium: Participates on a moderate level
c. High: Actively and appropriately participates
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

Students will be required to submit a short reading reflection prior to class for each of the two cases
discussed in the course. A separate document will be posted on Canvas with instructions.

Overall Course Performance
### Performance will be evaluated according to the following weights:

## 1. Assignment 1 12%

## 2. Assignment 2 15%

## 3. Assignment 3 15%

## 4. Assignment 4 15%

## 5. Assignment 5 15%

## 6. Assignment 6 15%

## 7. Case Reading Reflections (2) 6%

## 8. Class Attendance and Participation 7%

Total (graded on a curve) 100%
Final grades are based on a curve and are assigned based on your relative performance in comparison to
classmates' performance. The Heinz College faculty has endorsed guidelines for assigning grades, stating that
the mean grade in an elective course should be approximately 3.5 (B+ / A-).
### Corrections to Previously Submitted Assignments:

Assignment 6 Consolidated Plan: Students are required to make revisions and corrections to previous
assignments and incorporate them into the consolidated version for Assignment 6. Such corrections are
necessary in order to meet the requirements for the final assignment and will not qualify for extra points or
result in a re-grade of previous assignments.

Due Date Schedule (this is also posted on Canvas)
### Assignment Date Deadline Time Deadline

Syllabus Attestation Friday January 17 11:59pm
Brief Project Summary Saturday January 18 11:59pm
1 Wednesday January 22 6:00pm
2 Wednesday January 29 6:00pm
Case Reading Reflection Monday February 3 2:00pm
3 Wednesday February 5 6:00pm
Case Reading Reflection Monday February 10 2:00pm
4 Wednesday February 12 6:00pm
5 Wednesday February 19 6:00pm
6 Wednesday February 26 6:00pm
As noted on page 5, assignments received within 24 hours of the deadline will receive a late penalty. No
assignments will be accepted beyond 24 hours after the deadline.
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

# SUPPORT AND RESOURCES

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities: If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from
the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in
the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you
suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with
the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is fundamental
to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can refer to multiple ways
that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national origin, language, sex, disability, age,
sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of
these diverse identities, along with many others not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students,
faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity, equity and inclusion not only
because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue justice. We acknowledge our
imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our classrooms, of building and
sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately, incidents of bias or
discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They contribute to creating an unwelcoming
environment for individuals and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone who
experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support,
within the moment of the incident or after the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the
following resources:
*  Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
*  Ethics Reporting Hotline. Students, faculty, and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 844-5870793 or visiting cmu.ethicspoint.com.

All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions. Regardless
of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our campus climate to be more
equitable and just.

Food Insecurity
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus that can
help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:
Pantry Coordinator / cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu / 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)
Communication Assistance: The Student Academic Success Center (SASC) provides resources to all students in
the following areas:
### *  Academic Coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to

help undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists
students with time management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management,
and other skills. Request an initial consultation here.
### *  Peer Tutoring – Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their

coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open
tutoring sessions during the fall and spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing
individualized and small group sessions. You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content, clarify
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

and ask questions, and work through practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being
supported by Peer Tutoring.
### *  Communication Support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as

well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts including
IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design,
advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data
visualization, and team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate students
from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment (in-person or video), attend a workshop, or
consult handouts or videos to strengthen communication skills.
### *  Language and Cross-Cultural Support – This program supports students seeking help with language and

cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual and group sessions. Students
can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations and strategies for clear academic
writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and more. Make an appointment with a Language Development
Specialist to get individualized coaching.

Take care of yourself.

The last few years have been challenging. We are all under a lot of stress and uncertainty at this time. I encourage
you to find ways to move regularly, eat well, and reach out to your support system or me (synnott@cmu.edu) if
you need to. We can all benefit from support in times of stress, and this semester is no exception.

This course’s workload is divided into manageable weekly segments. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle
this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to
relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to
help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Counseling and Psychological Services has also partnered with TimelyCare to offer virtual wellbeing services and
programs for students. TimelyCare expands the availability of mental health services to a wider range of days,
times, and locations, offers on-demand self-care content through its app, and provides emotional support services
with professional counselors 24/7. https://www.cmu.edu/wellbeing/resources/timely-care.html.
### If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone immediately, day or night:

CaPS: 412-268-2922 or Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police: On campus: 412-268-2323 or off campus: 911. If you have
questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.
***************************************************************
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

PROJECT MANAGEMENT 94-813 SCHEDULE
Pre-recorded lectures and required readings are to be reviewed before the date listed on the syllabus.

Monday January 13, 2025
Topics
*  Course Overview – students will need to read the syllabus before or shortly following class.

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Course Overview [minor note: the lecture incorrectly mentions 7 assignments (instead of 6), and as a

result, assignment numbers are also incorrect. The essential content is correct.]
### *  Project Management Overview

### *  The Triple Constraint

### *  Project Selection for Assignments (this is a short slide deck with no recording)

### Students are required to do the following:

## 1. Acknowledge on Canvas by Friday January 17 that they have read the syllabus and understand the course

requirements. The Syllabus Attestation can be found under Assignments.
## 2. Complete the Project Summary Document on Canvas (under Assignments) and meet with a TA by

Saturday January 18.
## 3. Ensure that they receive all notifications regarding the course. As such they must go to Canvas / Account

(Upper Left) / Notifications then select the checkmarks next to three areas: Announcement, Discussion
and Discussion Post.

Wednesday January 15, 2025
Topics
### *  Scope Management

### *  The Project Lifecycle

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Scope Management

### *  Scope Statement

### *  Project Management Roles

### *  Project Lifecycle

Friday January 17, 2025
### SYLLABUS ATTESTATION DUE on Canvas

Saturday January 18, 2025
PROJECT SUMMARY DUE on Canvas (Brief Document on key project elements) after you MEET WITH A TA
NO CLASS Monday January 20 (Martin Luther King Jr. Day)
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

Wednesday January 22, 2025
Topics
### *  Scope Management, continued

### *  Work Breakdown Structure

### *  Duration Estimates for the Work Breakdown Structure

### *  Stakeholder Analysis

### *  Lifecycle Effects

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Stakeholder Analysis

### *  Work Breakdown Structure

### *  Duration Estimates

### *  Lifecycle Effects (if unavailable on Canvas, we’ll be covering this in class)

Wednesday January 22, 2025
ASSIGNMENT 1 DUE on Canvas: Scope Statement: justification, description, deliverables, known exclusions
and objectives
Monday January 27, 2025
Topic
### *  Time Management

### *  Critical Path Method (we’ll do this in class)

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Time Management

Wednesday January 29, 2025 - NO CLASS, but students are required to watch pre-recorded lectures
Topic
### *  Time and Critical Path, continued

### *  The Change Control System

Pre-Recorded Lectures
*  Time and Critical Path, continued – this is very important for the assignment!
### *  Change Control System

Wednesday January 29, 2025
ASSIGNMENT 2 DUE on Canvas: Stakeholder Analysis and Work Breakdown Structure
Monday February 3, 2025
READING REFLECTION DUE on Canvas Before 2:00PM: Obama’s Trauma Team Case
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

Monday February 3, 2025 – NOTE: Read Case, Submit Reading Reflection and Watch Lecture Before Class
Topics
### *  Class Discussion of Obama’s Trauma Team Case

### *  Team Leadership

Reading
### *  Case: Obama’s Trauma Team (on Canvas)

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Leading the Team

Wednesday February 5, 2025 – NO CLASS, but students are required to watch pre-recorded lectures
Topics
### *  Cost Management

### *  Quality Management

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Estimating Costs

### *  The Activity Based Budget

### *  Quality Management

Wednesday February 5, 2025
ASSIGNMENT 3 DUE on Canvas: Network Diagram with highlighted Critical Path
Monday February 10, 2025
READING REFLECTION DUE on Canvas Before 2:00PM: Petersen Events Center Case
Monday February 10, 2025 – NOTE: Read Case and Submit Reading Reflection Before Class
Topics
### *  Class Discussion of Petersen Events Center Case

### *  Fast Track Projects

Reading
### *  Case: Petersen Events Center Case (on Canvas)

Wednesday February 12, 2025 – Bring Laptops to Class
Topic
### *  Microsoft Project (MSP) - download software or access via Heinz Virtual Lab before class

Reading
### *  Microsoft Project Tutorial document (will be available on Canvas and a paper copy will be distributed in

class to follow along with tutorial)
# 94-813 Project Management Syllabus and Assignments Laura W. Synnott, Instructor

Wednesday February 12, 2025
### ASSIGNMENT 4 DUE on Canvas: Budget and Quality Management Plan

Monday February 17, 2025 - Bring Laptops and Microsoft Project Tutorial document to class
Topic
### *  Microsoft Project Tutorial (continued)

### *  Course Evaluations

Wednesday February 19, 2025 – NO CLASS, but students are required to watch pre-recorded lectures
Topics
### *  Risk Management

### *  Agile Project Management

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Risk Management

### *  Agile Project Management

Wednesday February 19, 2025
### ASSIGNMENT 5 DUE on Canvas: Microsoft Project Assignment

Monday February 24, 2025 – LAST DAY OF CLASS
Topics
### *  Course Wrap-Up

### *  Leadership Attributes of Effective Project Managers

### *  Managing Projects in Different Organizational Structures / Formal Recognition of Authority

Pre-Recorded Lectures
### *  Organizational Structures

*  (Optional) PMP and CAPM Certification
*  (Optional) Program Management Office
Wednesday February 26, 2025
ASSIGNMENT 6 DUE on Canvas: Consolidated Project Plan, Lessons Learned, Risk Management Plan
_____________________________________________________________________________________
### Note:

Student project plans may be shared with future classes as examples, but they will not be made available for
downloading or copying. If a student does not wish to have his or her plan shared, he or she should notify the
instructor by email.
### End of Syllabus Document

12