# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, HBS, class, Study Questions, students, Students, Article Assignment, Coke, Pepsi
**Document Length**: 4384 words

---

### Carnegie Mellon University H. John Heinz III College

Strategy Development – 94811 Section A3, Spring 2025
### Course Overview and Syllabus

Instructor Teaching Assistants
Laura W. Synnott Adwaieet Bhide: adwaieeb@andrew.cmu.edu
Associate Teaching Professor Natasha Pawar: npawar2@andrew.cmu.edu
2107B Hamburg Hall
synnott@cmu.edu
Office Hours by Appointment TA Office Hours (Zoom): Email the TAs to schedule
Course Description
This course introduces students to frameworks for understanding strategy development and implementation.

Through a combination of theory and practice, students will be exposed to processes for formulating a sound,
rational business strategy as well as the discipline required to successfully implement that strategy. Course
activities and concepts include: 1) situational and environmental analysis, 2) internal capabilities assessment,
and 3) appropriate linkage to an organization’s vision, mission, objectives, and historical performance. In
addition, although these processes are most often attributed to private sector operations, this course is designed
to consider the similarities and differences of strategy development in government entities and nonprofits as
well. There are no prerequisite courses.

Course Objectives
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Understand a broad overview of strategic thinking, strategy Class participation; case discussion,
development, and tactical execution in a variety of contexts. assignments, discussion board
Describe and utilize foundational concepts and frameworks that Class participation; case discussion,
are used “in the real world” to craft winning strategies. assignments, discussion board
Identify and clearly define a problem/issue; analyze and Class participation; case discussion,
question data and information in a rigorous manner. assignments, discussion board
Listen to, respect and heed the advice and ideas of others Class participation; case discussion,
assignments, discussion board
Course Materials (all materials are listed in the Course Schedule section of this syllabus)
1) 6 Case studies
2) Articles (there is no textbook for the class)
3) NOTE: All materials are on Canvas. This course uses course material from Harvard Business School that is not
available for individual purchase. The cases and articles have been secured by Heinz College, and students
will receive a $20 charge to their student accounts at the conclusion of the Drop / Add period.

Class Structure
Classes typically consist of one case discussion and a review of the associated reading material. The readings are
meant to provide theory and frameworks to assist in case analysis. Instructions for each class and questions to
assist with case analysis are included in the ‘Course Schedule’ section of this syllabus. For classes where no case
study is assigned, students are still required to complete the readings to be prepared for discussion.

Expectations
Typically, cases require 2 to 3 hours of preparation and readings/articles require 1 hour of preparation before the
class date noted on the syllabus. It is expected that everyone will be prepared to discuss the cases and the
readings. Please do not research companies in the cases to see what decisions they actually made unless

Strategy Development Course 94-811
specifically asked to do so. You are permitted and encouraged to discuss cases and reading material before class
in a study group with other members of the class.
### Class Attendance and Participation

Class attendance and participation are critical for successful completion of the course. All students should actively
engage in class discussions with the instructor, guest lecturers and one another, and be prepared to correctly
answer questions about that day’s case, readings, or general topic. Attendance will be taken at every class, and
participation will be noted as well. Students who attend every class and participate actively and meaningfully will
receive a higher score. Impromptu questions and exercises will assess student preparation and readiness for class
and will also be incorporated into the class participation score.

Absences: Students are permitted one absence during the mini, which can be used for illness, travel, a job
interview, or other reason. Additional absences will result in a lower score, including classes missed the first week
of the course.
### Assignments and Discussion Board Posts

Students will submit Assignments 1-3 to the Canvas discussion board, according to the “Assignment Due Date
Schedule” table below. These posts will cover lectures, required readings, class discussions and guest lectures.

Students will also be required to respond to a fellow student’s post as the second part of the assignment.

Instructions regarding discussion board assignments can be found on Canvas under the Module for the first day of
class.

Course Performance Evaluation
### Performance will be evaluated based on the following:

Assignment 1 15%
Assignment 2 20%
Assignment 3 20%
Assignment 4 20%
### Class Attendance and Participation 25%

Total course grade 100%
Final grades are based on a curve and are assigned based on your relative performance in comparison to
classmates' performance. The Heinz College faculty has endorsed guidelines for assigning grades, stating that the
mean grade in an elective course should be approximately 3.5 (B+).

Assignment Due Date Schedule (the first two items are not graded, but are required)
Assignment Where to Submit Deadline for Original Post: Deadline for Response Post:
11:59pm 11:59pm
### Syllabus Attestation Assignments Friday January 17 N/A

### Company Selection Discussion Board Monday January 20 N/A

### 1 Discussion Board Monday January 27 Tuesday January 28

### 2 Discussion Board Monday February 3 Tuesday February 4

### 3 Discussion Board Monday February 17 Tuesday February 18

### 4 Assignments Monday February 24 N/A

### Page 2 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
### Questions Regarding the Course or Assignments

All questions regarding the course should be posted to the Canvas discussion board. In this way, all students will
be able to review answers to questions. Students are strongly encouraged to monitor the discussion board on a
regular basis to ensure that they have up to date information. Please note that questions received via e-mail or
phone, and last-minute questions may not be answered. The Canvas discussion board is also for you to interact
with others in the course. Feel free to post questions, comments, and items of interest on this bulletin board.

Personal questions regarding the course should be directed to the instructor.
### Use of Electronic Devices

Laptops, tablets, cell phones and other electronic devices are not permitted in class. There are two reasons for
this:
### *  Research on learning shows that unexpected noises and movement automatically divert and capture

people's attention, which means you are affecting everyone’s learning experience if your cell phone,
laptop, etc. makes noise or is visually distracting during class.
### *  The use of electronic devices in past courses has demonstrated that they are too distracting for students

and can have an adverse effect on class performance.

If there is a specific day when students will require laptops during class, advance notice will be given.
### Recording of Class Sessions

No student may record or tape any classroom activity without the express written consent of the instructor. If a
student believes that he/she is disabled and needs to record or tape classroom activities, he/she should contact
the Office of Equal Opportunity Services, Disability Resources to request an appropriate accommodation.

For this course, I will be recording class sessions and making them available to you after classes for your personal,
educational use. Recordings of class sessions are covered under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
(FERPA) and must not be shared with anyone outside your course-section. The purpose of these recordings is so
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions. The recordings
are not a substitute for coming to class (you won’t be able to join class remotely), and they will only become
available after that day’s class sections are finished. Feel free to use the recordings if you would like to review
something we discussed in class or if you are temporarily unable to attend class.

Ethical Standards
Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards with respect to plagiarism and cheating. Neither
plagiarism nor cheating will be tolerated on any exercises, quizzes, exams or assignments. Students may
collaborate with others only when expressly permitted by the instructor. Students who violate academic
standards will at a minimum receive a failing grade for the assignment, and may also receive a failing grade for the
course. Such cases will be referred to the Associate Dean, who may decide to take further action.
### Students May Not use Generative AI in Any Form

To best support your own learning, you should complete all graded assignments in this course yourself, without
any use of generative artificial intelligence (AI). Please refrain from using AI tools to generate any content (text,
video, audio, images, code, etc.) for an assignment or classroom exercise. Passing off any AI generated content as
your own (e.g., cutting and pasting content into written assignments, or paraphrasing AI content) constitutes a
violation of CMU’s academic integrity policy. If you have any questions about using generative AI in this course
please email or talk to me.
### Page 3 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
# SUPPORT AND RESOURCES

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities: If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from
the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in
the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you
suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with
the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Communication Assistance: The Student Academic Success Center (SASC) provides resources to all students in
the following areas:
### *  Academic Coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to

help undergraduate and graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists
students with time management, productive learning and study habits, organization, stress management,
and other skills. Request an initial consultation here.
### *  Peer Tutoring – Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their

coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open
tutoring sessions during the fall and spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing
individualized and small group sessions. You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content, clarify
and ask questions, and work through practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses currently being
supported by Peer Tutoring.
### *  Communication Support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as

well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication in texts including
IMRaD and thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters and visual design,
advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business and public policy documents, data
visualization, and team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate and graduate students
from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment (in-person or video), attend a workshop, or
consult handouts or videos to strengthen communication skills.
### *  Language and Cross-Cultural Support – This program supports students seeking help with language and

cross-cultural skills for academic and professional success through individual and group sessions. Students
can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations and strategies for clear academic
writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, and more. Make an appointment with a Language Development
Specialist to get individualized coaching.

An Inclusive Environment: We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and
this diversity is fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity
can refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national origin,
language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry, belief, veteran status,
or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others not mentioned here, shape the
perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus. We, at CMU, will work to promote diversity,
equity and inclusion not only because diversity fuels excellence and innovation, but because we want to pursue
justice. We acknowledge our imperfections while we also fully commit to the work, inside and outside of our
classrooms, of building and sustaining a campus community that increasingly embraces these core values.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately, incidents of bias or
discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They contribute to creating an unwelcoming
environment for individuals and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages anyone who
experiences or observes unfair or hostile treatment on the basis of identity to speak out for justice and support,
within the moment of the incident or after the incident has passed. Anyone can share these experiences using the
following resources:
### Page 4 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
*  Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu, (412) 268-2150
*  Ethics Reporting Hotline. Students, faculty, and staff can anonymously file a report by calling 844-5870793 or visiting cmu.ethicspoint.com.

All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions. Regardless
of incident type, the university will use all shared experiences to transform our campus climate to be more
equitable and just.

Food Insecurity: If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on
campus that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment:
Pantry Coordinator / cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu / 412-268-8704 (SLICE office)
Please take care of yourself
The last few years have been challenging. We are all under a lot of stress and uncertainty at this time. I encourage
you to find ways to move regularly, eat well, and reach out to your support system or me (synnott@cmu.edu) if
you need to. We can all benefit from support in times of stress, and this semester is no exception.

This course’s workload is divided into weekly segments. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester
by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for
support sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to
help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a
friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Counseling and Psychological Services has also partnered with TimelyCare to offer virtual wellbeing services and
programs for students. TimelyCare expands the availability of mental health services to a wider range of days,
times, and locations, offers on-demand self-care content through its app, and provides emotional support services
with professional counselors 24/7. https://www.cmu.edu/wellbeing/resources/timely-care.html.
### If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone immediately, day or night:

CaPS: 412-268-2922 or Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police: On campus: 412-268-2323 or off campus: 911. If you have
questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.
***************************************************************
### Page 5 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
# COURSE SCHEDULE

For each class listed below, there are ‘Instructions and Study Questions’ to be used to guide and assist as you
prepare for class. I do not expect written responses to these ‘Instructions and Study Questions’; however, if
students appear to be unprepared for class sessions, I may require written answers at a later point in the course.

Note that these study questions are not to be answered for the Assignments, which are detailed on Canvas.

Monday January 13, 2025
### Topic: Class Introduction and Introduction to the Case Method

Reading Assignment – to be read prior to class
## 1. Course Syllabus (on Canvas)

2. “The Case Method” by David Lassman (on Canvas)
Video – to be watched prior to class
## 1. Strategic Planning Lecture (on Canvas)

### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Please read the course syllabus and the article, “The Case Method,” and watch the pre-recorded lecture in

preparation for our first class.
## 2. Sign the Syllabus Attestation (on Canvas)

## 3. Ensure that you will receive all course notifications. Go to: Canvas / Account (Upper Left) / Notifications

then select the checkmarks next to three areas: Announcement, Discussion and Discussion Post.

Wednesday January 15, 2025
### Topic: Industry Analysis: The Five Forces

Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. Cola Wars Continue: Coke and Pepsi in 2010 (HBS 9-711-462)

2. “The Five Competitive Forces That Shape Strategy” by Michael Porter (HBS R0801E)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Analyze the cola industry using the ‘5 Competitive Forces’ model.

a) Potential Entrants: Why haven’t others successfully challenged Coke and Pepsi? What are the
barriers to entry?
b) Substitute Products: What are the substitute products and how are they doing relative to Coke and
Pepsi?
c) Power of Suppliers: Consider the power of suppliers of cans, sweetener, and other raw materials
d) Power of Customers/Buyers: Consider the power of bottlers, sellers (grocery, restaurant, etc.) and
end-users (customer who drink the CSD)
e) Cola Industry Rivals: Who are the rivals, including Coke and Pepsi, and how do they differentiate
themselves? How many are there?
## 2. Why, historically, has the soft drink industry been so profitable? How has the competition between Coke

and Pepsi affected the industry’s profits?

NO CLASS Monday January 20 (Martin Luther King Jr. Day), but Discussion Board Post Due – Company Selection
Wednesday January 22, 2025
### Topic: Vision, Capabilities and Coherence

Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. Southwest Airlines: In a Different World (HBS 9-910-419)

2. “What Is Strategy?” by Michael Porter (HBS 96608)
3. “The Coherence Premium” by Paul Leinwand and Cesare Mainardi (HBS R1006F)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Why has Southwest been so much more successful than its competitors? In answering this question,

consider the following four topics: 1) Who is Southwest’s target market? 2) What is the customer
### Page 6 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
experience like when flying Southwest? 3) What does Southwest do operationally with regards to
airports, planes, fuel, etc.? and 4) What are Southwest’s HR policies and what is expected of employees?
## 2. How has the original strategy been altered in recent years? How, if at all, have these changes affected

Southwest’s key success factors?
## 3. Would you recommend that Southwest Airlines acquire the gates and slots available at LaGuardia

Airport? Why or why not?

Monday January 27, 2025
### Topic: Vision, Capabilities, Coherence in Health Care

Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. Shouldice Hospital Limited (HBS 9-805-002)

2. “Why Strategy Matters Now” by Michael Porter and Thomas Lee, The New England Journal of Medicine,
April 30, 2015. (on Canvas)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. How successful is Shouldice Hospital? In answering this, consider the following four questions: 1) Who is

Shouldice Hospital’s target market? 2) What is the patient experience like, from the first contact with
Shouldice through to the ‘patient reunions’? 3) What does Shouldice do operationally with regards to
facilities, procedures, etc.? and 4) What are Shouldice’s HR practices and what is expected of employees?
## 2. What are the biggest risk factors for Shouldice going forward?

## 3. If you were Dr. Burns Shouldice (50% owner of the hospital), what actions, if any, would you take to

expand the hospital’s capacity? How would you implement the changes you propose?

Monday January 27, 2025: Assignment 1 Due
### Tuesday January 30: Assignment 1 Response Post Due

Wednesday January 29, 2025
### Topic: Vision, Capabilities and Coherence

Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. KaBOOM! (HBS 9-303-025)

2. “Building Your Company’s Vision” by James Collins and Jerry Porras (HBS 96501)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Per the first page of the case (4th paragraph), a strategic shift was being contemplated, from directly to

indirectly building playgrounds, as well as a pivot toward becoming a knowledge leader and advocate.
## 2. If you were Darell Hammond and the board of KaBoom!, what would you recommend, i.e. which of the

strategic options would you choose and why? You may pick any one option or any combination of the
options in the case, including simply sticking with the current strategy’s primary focus on directly building
playgrounds with corporate partners.

Monday February 3, 2025
### Topic: Entrepreneurial Strategy: The Innovator’s Dilemma

Guest Lecturer: Brendan Synnott, serial entrepreneur, Co-Founder and former CEO of Bear Naked, CEO of PACT
Organic, and numerous other companies.

Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
1. “Innovator’s Dilemma: Introduction: Why Good Companies Fail to Thrive in Fast Moving Industries” by
Clayton Christensen (HBS 1713BC)
## 2. Chapter 7 of The Innovator's Dilemma, by Clayton Christensen (on Canvas) – starts on pg. 14

3. ‘Cisco’s CEO on Staying Ahead of Technology Shifts’: https://hbr.org/2015/05/ciscos-ceo-on-stayingahead-of-technology-shifts (also on Canvas)
Instructions and Study Questions: you’re encouraged to ask questions of Brendan during class.
### Page 7 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
Monday February 3, 2025: Assignment 2 Due
Tuesday February 4, 2025: Assignment 2 Response Post Due
Wednesday February 5, 2025
### Topic: Creating Shared Value

Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
1. “Creating Shared Value” by Michael Porter and Mark Kramer (HBS R1101C)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Has the company you have been studying focused on corporate social responsibility and/or has it

prioritized the creation of shared value? What evidence have you found?
## 2. If your company has not attempted to created shared value, how do you recommend that it do so?

Monday February 10, 2025
### Topic: The Balanced Scorecard

Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. City of Charlotte (A) (HBS 9-199-036)

2. “The Balanced Scorecard – Measures That Drive Performance” by Robert Kaplan and David Norton (HBS
92105)
## 3. Charlotte BSC 2014 and 2019 (on Canvas)

### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. What do you think Charlotte did well in the implementation of the BSC? What have they not done well

and how could they improve?
## 2. Do you think the Balanced Scorecards developed by Charlotte as shown in the exhibits are useful?

## 3. Have you ever worked for an organization with a Balanced Scorecard or something similar? Was the

scorecard explicitly tied to the organization’s strategy? How successful was the scorecard in driving
actions that supported the strategy?

Wednesday February 12, 2025
### Topic: Developing Strategic Options; Mergers and Affiliations

Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
1. “Why Good Companies Go Bad” by Donald N. Sull (HBS 99410)
2. “Seven Ways to Fail Big” by Paul Caroll and Chunka Mui (HBS R0809F)
3. “Not All M&As Are Alike – And That Matters” by Joseph L. Bower (HBS R0103F)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Review the news or search the internet for an example of a company that attempted, completed and/or

failed to affiliate with another company (mergers, acquisitions, alliances or partnerships):
a. Was there a stated reason for the affiliation?
b. Do you believe the stated reason was the actual reason?
c. Identify what type of affiliation it was based on the Bower article (#3 article above)
d. Do you believe the affiliation was a wise strategy? Why or why not?
### Page 8 of 9

Strategy Development Course 94-811
Monday February 17, 2025
### Topic: Strategic Decision Making

Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. Chapter 1: Mental Models and Strategic Decision Making, Transformative Planning by Jim Austin, 2018

(on Canvas)
2. “How Management Teams Can Have a Good Fight” by Kathleen Eisenhardt, Jean Kahwajy, and L.J.

Bourgeois (HBS 97402)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. Recall examples of when you were in a group setting and experienced each of the four decision traps

(frame narrowness, confirmation bias, groupthink, and attribution bias) described in the Austin book?
## 2. If you could go back in time, how might you have tried to avoid each decision trap?

## 3. Have you observed any of the four decision traps at the management levels of an organization where you

worked or were part of the community?
## 4. Have you experienced or observed any of the team dynamics described in the “How Management Teams

Can Have a Good Fight” article? What approaches were effective or ineffective in leading to a successful
decision?

Monday February 17, 2025 – Assignment 3 Due (on Canvas Discussion Board)
Tuesday February 18, 2025 – Assignment 3 Response Post Due
Wednesday February 19, 2025
Topic: Strategy Implementation
Case and Article Assignment: to be read prior to class
## 1. Ben and Jerry’s Homemade Ice Cream: A Period of Transition (HBS 9-796-109)

2. “Bringing Science to the Art of Strategy” by A.G.Lafley, Roger Martin, Jan Rivkin and Nicolaj Siggelkow
(HBS R1209C)
### Instructions and Study Questions:

## 1. What issues face Ben and Jerry’s Homemade Ice Cream Inc. in 1995?

## 2. Is the first ever financial loss in 1994 due solely to the $6.8 million write-down of the new factory or is

something else going on? Are some components of Ben and Jerry’s cost structure higher than their
competitors’?
## 3. At the time of the case, does Ben and Jerry’s have a clear and coherent strategy? Articulate it if you can.

## 4. What should Ben and Jerry’s strategy be going forward? How should they address quality, their

requirement to use ‘Vermont natural dairy’ ingredients, the company’s ‘Hippie’ culture, their cost
structure, diversification (both in products and geography), etc. Consider how the first three steps in the
“Bringing Science to the Art of Strategy” article could be used to formulate the strategy.

Monday February 24, 2025 – LAST DAY OF CLASS
### Topic: End of Course Review and Discussion

Article Assignment: None
### Instructions and Study Questions: None

Monday February 24, 2025 – Assignment 4 Due (Under the Assignments Section of Canvas)
### Page 9 of 9