# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Canvas, ###, 11:59 p.m., AI, this course, ArcGIS, Sunday, the course, content, ## Week
**Document Length**: 3883 words

---

# 94802-A

Subject to change
Geographic Information Systems
Spring Semester 2024 94-802A
Course details
Course No: 94-802, 94-402
### Course Name: Geographic Information Systems

### Day: Mondays and Wednesdays

Time: 9:30 - 10:50 AM
Location: HBH 2008 (Pittsburgh, PA)
Prerequisites
90-728, Introduction to Database Management Systems, equivalent course, or permission of
instructor.

You should feel comfortable writing narrative-driven stories, reports, and the results of data analysis.

Likewise, it's really important that you understand how to correctly cite source materials and
references used, how to paraphrase content correctly, and applications of U.S. copyright law
to images and written content. See the excellent library guide at
https://guides.library.cmu.edu/usingimages (https://guides.library.cmu.edu/usingimages) for more.
### Just a few examples of things not to do would include:

Copying and pasting content from any secondary source (including that generated by AI) without
proper attribution;
Using AI to generate content you represent as your own;
Inadequate paraphrasing of content;
Using copyrighted imagery without permission.

This is by far not an exhaustive list, but if you are confused as to why any of the items above are
problematic, please talk to me early in the course. If these are new or extremely confusing concepts
for you, I would advise you not take this course. Again, please ask me early if you have questions.

Professor

Chris Goranson (cgoranso@andrew.cmu.edu), Hamburg Hall 2105B, office hours by appointment.

Teaching Assistants (TAs)
Kaia Hu <kaiqihu@andrew.cmu.edu> and Morgan Shaw <morgansh@andrew.cmu.edu>. Office
hours to be posted on Canvas.

Course website
https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/
Course description
A geographic information system (GIS) provides storage, retrieval, and visualization of geographically
referenced data as well as design and analysis of spatial information. GIS provides unique analytical
tools to investigate spatial relationships, patterns, and processes of cultural, biological, demographic,
economic, social, environmental, health care, criminal, and other phenomena.

The course includes lectures, computer labs, and a project using the leading desktop GIS software,
### ArcGIS Pro, from Esri, Inc. Subject areas will include:

Geographic concepts (world coordinate systems, map scale/projections, sea level/elevation),
Government-provided map infrastructure (TIGER maps, census data, satellite and aerial photo
images, local government cadastral maps),
Map design (cartography, interactive maps, map animations, and Web-based GIS),
Geodatabases (importing spatial and attribute data, geocodes, table joins, data aggregation, and
map queries),
Creation of new spatial data (digitizing, geocoding, and dissolving vector features),
Spatial data processing (clipping, merging, appending, joining, dissolving),
Spatial analysis (proximity analysis, risk surface, site suitability, spatial data mining),
Other topics (raster GIS, 3D GIS, network analysis, etc.) as identified in course materials and
selected the instructor.

Learning outcomes
## 1. Develop an understanding of the world’s quickly-growing spatial data infrastructure and of how to

put it to work for producing location-based information.
## 2. Identify the relevant spatial characteristics of diverse application areas enabling professionals to

integrate spatial thinking and GIS analysis into their careers.
## 3. Have an ability to use geospatial technologies to gain a significant advantage in the information

technology field.

Course materials

** Please note this course uses the latest version of GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 3.1, published
in 2023 **
GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 3.1 by Wilpen L. Gorr, Kristen S. Kurland. ISBN: 9781589487390
### Textbook is available on Amazon, Barnes & Noble, etc. or via Esri Press:

https://www.esri.com/en-us/esri-press/browse/gis-tutorial-for-arcgis-pro-3-1
(https://www.esri.com/en-us/esri-press/browse/gis-tutorial-for-arcgis-pro-3-1)
### You can download the first chapter of the text for free here:

https://www.esri.com/content/dam/esrisites/en-us/esri-press/book-pages/samplepage/browse/gis-tutorial-arcgis-pro3-1-sample.pdf
(https://www.esri.com/content/dam/esrisites/en-us/esri-press/book-pages/sample-page/browse/gistutorial-arcgis-pro3-1-sample.pdf)
Exercise and assignment data*, including other resources related to the book can be downloaded
here:
https://learngis.maps.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=21777534c47e4bce878fa499e3bda141
(https://learngis.maps.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=21777534c47e4bce878fa499e3bda141)
### * Please note that assignments as presented in Canvas are in some cases different and / or modified

versions of the original assignments presented in the book, so follow the instructions on Canvas
for completing the assignments.
### Other course materials include:

Slides from lectures
Videos and readings provided on Canvas
ArcGIS Pro software: available from Heinz Computing Services or via Heinz VMWare
Select materials from learn.esri.com
If you are interested in purchasing or renting an ebook of the text, you can do so via VitalSource
(https://www.vitalsource.com/) . You will need to set up a free account, but according to Esri should
also include access to a free software trial. If you want to go this route you'd want to get the 120 Day
rental to ensure you have adequate coverage for the course. But, note that you can purchase the ebook for not much more than that, so I'm not sure it ultimately ends up being a great deal.

Another source you can consider is Indiepubs or your favorite major retailer (just double-check to
make sure you get the correct edition). Esri titles can be found at
https://publisher.indiepubs.com/esri-press (https://publisher.indiepubs.com/esri-press)
Installing ArcGIS Pro
Downloading and installing the software on your own laptop highly recommended. While Virtual
Andrew may be an option in a pinch, it's not recommended due to the processing power
requirements and the difficulty you may encounter saving and retrieving your work. You can review

the latest system requirements for the software here (https://pro.arcgis.com/en/proapp/latest/get-started/arcgis-pro-system-requirements.htm) .

Important note for Mac users: Setting up the software to run on your Mac may be possible,
but is generally more complicated. More information is available on the Getting started: a few
resources page on Canvas. Note that this method is at your own risk - but generally students have
had success running ArcGIS Pro with either Parallels or Bootcamp. It's the configuration I run
myself: I use an Intel-based MacBook running Bootcamp.

While I would consider this a non-optimal option, using CMU's Virtual Andrew is another option for
you if you intend to use a MacBook, and Heinz IT has made efforts to improve the functionality lately.

But a strong preference would be for having a locally installed copy of the software running instead.

Finally, if you intend to periodically use a computer other than your own laptop with ArcGIS Pro
installed on it, you may also want to ensure you have a blank flash drive with plenty of free space to
manage moving files between devices.

Note: Before the end of the course you will probably want to make arrangements to move anything
you want to hold onto beyond this course to a personal account, especially if you are graduating
soon. There is a simple two step process you can use to do this (H/T Suzy Li):
Going from School Account to Personal Account
## 1. Obtain ArcGIS for Personal Use Subscription (https://www.esri.com/enus/arcgis/products/arcgis-for-personal-use/overview (https://www.esri.com/enus/arcgis/products/arcgis-for-personal-use/overview) )

## 2. Use AGO Assistant to copy content from Student AGOL Account to Personal Use AGOL account

(https://ago-assistant.esri.com/ (https://ago-assistant.esri.com/) )
Heinz College IT will eventually clear out older data and materials from older Esri accounts, so it's a
good idea to make a note on your calendar to do this at the close of this course.

Assessments
### The final course grade will be calculated using the following categories:

Percentage of
Assessment
Final Grade
Assignments, including most in-class challenges 40%
Case study 15%

Quizzes (2) 15%
Final project 30%
Class attendance
Students are expected to attend weekly lectures and lab sessions. You should alert me if you will
miss a class before you do so. Do note however that in-class exercises cannot be made up later, so
timely attendance in the course is important.

Communication
Clarification and discussion of GIS concepts and procedural knowledge are not limited just to lectures
and lab sessions. To get the most out of your experience, post questions and / or comments of
general relevance directly to the discussion boards. This allows the instructor and / or TA to answer
questions that multiple students may have, or address technical issues that more than one student
may be experiencing. Likewise, if you see a question you think you can answer on the discussion
board, please do! This helps everyone build stronger GIS and analytic skills. We will regularly
monitor the discussion board for questions and generally try to respond within 24 hours. If you have
questions that are more personal in nature you are welcome to send an email directly, but please
default to the discussion board when possible.

Other opportunities to connect with the instructor and TA include office hours which will be posted on
Canvas shortly after the start of the course.

Grading Policies
Late-work policy: It's really, really important to stay current with assignments in this class as we tend
to move quickly and they tend to build on the previous assignment's materials. Please note that late
work for this course will not be accepted after the due date (except as specified below) unless
previously arranged with the professor to do extraordinary circumstances (for example, illness, family
emergency, out of town). This helps keep things fair for those in the class who were able to
complete their work on time, especially considering for certain assignments we'll review them in a
class following the due date.

First late assignment*: 25% penalty, if submitted within 24 hrs of original deadline. Assignments more
than 24 hrs late won't be accepted.

Second late assignment*: 50% penalty, if submitted within 24 hrs of original deadline. Assignments
more than 24 hrs late won't be accepted.

Third (or more) late assignment*: not accepted.

Assignments more than 24 hrs late won't be accepted.
* Not all assignments can be turned in late. In-class activities including presentations will not be
accepted late as they reflect your timely participation in the course, which is necessary for everyone
to learn from each other. Some assignments will be reviewed in class, so it's important that you stay
current in your work.

Re-grade policy: If you think there has been a technical error in the grading of your assignment, you
should e-mail the grader within one week of receiving the grading assignment, otherwise the
assignment will not be regraded. You must provide justification for the re-grade in writing along with
your request. Assignments older than one week will not be regraded.

Finally, if you're having a problem meeting a deadline or really struggling with the content in
this course, I'd prefer you just reach out to me directly.

Course Policies
University's policy on accommodations: Accommodations, academic adjustments, and auxiliary
aids and services (collectively “accommodations”) are provided to students with disabilities, as
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
applicable federal, state and local laws. Please refer to CMU’s website for information.
### Course Recordings for Synchronous Classes

Note: This section generally only applies if the course is being taught remotely. If the course is being
taught in-person, with few exceptions lectures will not be recorded or posted to Canvas. For this
reason it's important to attend all in-person lectures.

Unless otherwise stated, synchronous classes taught remotely will be recorded via Zoom so that
students in this course (and only students in this course) can watch or re-watch past class sessions.

Please note that breakout rooms will not be recorded. I will make the recordings available on Canvas
as soon as possible after each class session (usually within 3 hours of the class meeting).

Recordings will live in our Canvas website. Please note that you are not allowed to share or repost
these recordings. This is to protect your FERPA rights and those of your fellow students.
### Academic Integrity & Collaboration

This course will follow Heinz College policies on ethics and discipline as stated in student handbooks.
### A specific policy of this course is as follows:

Homework assignments: Do not copy or modify homework solutions for your homework
solutions. Homework must be individual work unless otherwise stated. You may consult each
other on clarification, technical and conceptual issues, but you must do individual problem solving
and derive your own solutions, including your own computer work.

GIS assets and analysis for the mid-term case study and final project should also be your own work -
not the reposting of analysis done by someone else and / or found somewhere else on the internet.

Written and other content for the mid-term case study and your final project also needs to be your
own work, and any images used should not infringe on someone else's copyright. It is your
responsibility to ensure you adequately cite all materials used correctly in this course. Further
guidance on acceptable use of imagery can be found on Canvas.

You are not permitted to be in possession of or reference any assignments from another student or
other source either from the current semester or from past semesters, whether they are electronic or
paper. Possession of or the sharing such files constitutes an infraction of the academic integrity
policies of this course.

You are not permitted to create, edit or revise assignments submitted electronically (e.g. on ArcGIS
Online) after the due date.

Working with AI tools like Gemini, CoPilot, ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc: Working with AI tools is an
emerging skill and as such I want you to get exposure to using it to problem-solve and how it can be
helpful in other situations. Therefore, in some instances you'll be welcome to use generative AI
programs (ChatGPT, DALL-E, etc.) in this class.

However, your responsibilities as a student remain the same. You must follow the academic
integrity guidelines of the university and of this class. So, if you use one of these generative AI
tools to develop content for an assignment, you are required to cite the tool’s contribution to your
work. So, while you can use generative AI tools to do things like brainstorm and / or work to develop
a better understanding of a problem (much like you would using a search engine), cutting and pasting
content from any source without citation would be considered plagiarism. Likewise, using any
generative AI tool without appropriate acknowledgement will be treated as plagiarism. The
university’s policy on plagiarism (https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html) applies to all un-cited or improperly cited use of work, whether that work is created by
human beings alone or in collaboration with a generative AI.
### Examples of how you might use AI tools for this class include:

Brainstorm approaches to hard-to-solve policy questions by fusing ideas and information together
Further refine ideas for a story narrative, structures, or approaches to your work
Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem
Generating images for the final project, with citation.

However, if you use AI for any of these examples, you will need to mention how you used AI in the AI
acknowledgement sections of assignments, or appropriately cite the contribution before turning in
your work. The key here is transparency on your process.
### Examples of unacceptable use of AI tools in this class include, but are not limited to:

Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without
quotations and a citation
Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself (this is a really, really bad
idea (https://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/2023/06/lawyers-have-real-bad-day-in-court-after-citingfake-cases-made-up-by-chatgpt/) )
Generate other content unless expressly permitted and following provided guidance (just ask if
you have ideas here)
Using GenAI to complete assignments or components of assignments without attribution
Otherwise use or present generative AI content as your own work, when really it is not*
(*If it helps, think of GenAI as a co-author - would you really leave a fellow classmate or coworker off
of a manuscript that you wrote together?)
If you have any questions about what's acceptable and what's not, you should talk to be before using
these tools - not afterwards when my options for helping you will be much more limited. Finally,
please note that what is acceptable in this class is likely different in other courses at CMU. Take care
to check with your instructors and ask questions if you're unsure.

It is also important that you recognize that large language models frequently provide users with
incorrect information, create professional-looking citations that are not real, generate contradictory
statements, incorporate copyrighted material without appropriate attribution, and can sometimes
integrate biased concepts. Code generation models may produce inaccurate outputs. Image
generation models may create misleading or offensive content.

Finally, it is important to note that you understand you are ultimately responsible for the content
that you submit. Work that is inaccurate, biased, unethical, offensive, plagiarized, or incorrect will be
penalized.

By remaining enrolled, you consent to this policy.

Accommodations for students with disabilities: If you have a disability and have an
accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I encourage you to discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to
ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a
disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:access@andrew.cmu.edu) .

Statement on student wellness: As a student, you may experience a range of challenges that can
interfere with learning, such as strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling
down, difficulty concentrating and/or lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful
events may diminish your academic performance and/or reduce your ability to participate in daily
activities. CMU services are available, and treatment does work. You can learn more about
confidential mental health services available on campus at: http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/
(http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/) . Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling and
Psychological Services: 412-268-2922.

Laptops and other Mobile Devices: In general this is a course that uses a lot of technology, so it’s
expected that on most days you’ll have your laptop and phone with you. With that said, it’s your
responsibility to be respectful when using these devices. Keep your phone on silent, don’t talk on the
phone while in class, don’t distract others by viewing content on your laptop or phone not relevant to
the course, and no technical devices are allowed for any quizzes or tests administered through this
course unless explicitly stated by the professor.
### Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We must treat every individual with respect. We are diverse in many ways, and this diversity is
fundamental to building and maintaining an equitable and inclusive campus community. Diversity can
refer to multiple ways that we identify ourselves, including but not limited to race, color, national
origin, language, sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, creed, ancestry,
belief, veteran status, or genetic information. Each of these diverse identities, along with many others
not mentioned here, shape the perspectives our students, faculty, and staff bring to our campus.

Each of us is responsible for creating a safer, more inclusive environment. Unfortunately, incidents of
bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They contribute to creating an
unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university. If you experience or observe
unfair or hostile treatment, you can take advantage of the following resources:
Center for Student Diversity and Inclusion: csdi@andrew.cmu.edu
(mailto:csdi@andrew.cmu.edu) , (412) 268-2150
Report-It (http://www.reportit.net/) online anonymous reporting platform: reportit.net
(http://www.reportit.net/) username: tartans password: plaid
All reports will be documented and deliberated to determine if there should be any following actions.

Calendar
subject to change
## Week 1, Introduction - ch. 1

01/13 and 01/15

Assignment #1, due 11:59 p.m., Monday, 01/22 (See Canvas for assignment details)
01/13 – Lecture
Course overview and policies
GIS Definition
Map layers and their properties
Geospatial data types (vector, raster, networks, 3D)
Video lectures (view on your own)
ArcGIS Pro Overview
History of GIS (optional)
01/15 - Lab: (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 2.8, Chapter 1)
## Week 2, Map design - ch. 2

01/20* and 01/22
* Please note that Monday, January 20th is Martin Luther King Jr. Day. No class will be held on this
day.

Assignment #2, due 11:59 p.m., Sunday 01/28
01/22 – Lecture / Lab (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 2.8, Chapter 2)
Map design principles
Map types
Symbolizing maps
Color (spectrum, hue, color wheel, saturation)
Video lectures
## 2.5 Numeric scales (uniform, clustering, geometric, quantiles)

## 2.6 Feature labels

## 2.7 Additional guidelines

01/22 - Lab: (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 2.8, Chapter 2)
## Week 3, Map outputs for GIS projects - ch. 3

01/27 and 01/29

Assignment 3 due 11:59 p.m., Sunday 02/04
01/27 – Lecture
GIS Projects and traditional outputs
Map layouts (maps, legend, text, scale bar)
GIS Outputs
Story Maps
01/29 – Lab (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 2.8, Chapter 3)
## Week 4, Geodatabases - ch. 4

02/03 and 02/05
Assignment #4 due 11:59 p.m., Monday 02/12
02/03 – Lecture
Modifying tables and attributes
Table calculations
Joining tables
Attribute queries
Data aggregation with a spatial join
02/05 – Lab (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro 2.8, Chapter 4)
## Week 5, Spatial Data - ch. 5

02/10 and 02/12
No homework to turn in this week, prep for quiz and finish book tutorial. However, you should use
this week to start thinking about the mid-term case study. Part I of the case study will be due
11:59 p.m., Sunday 02/23.
02/10 – Lecture
Map projections (small and large scale, conformal versus equivalent projections, spatial reference
data)
Projected coordinate systems (geographic/spherical versus rectangular, spheroids)
Basemap data sources (physical surface, environmental, political, populations,
biology/ecology)

### WGS Web Mercator Pro Demo

US Census map layers and tabular data
02/12 – Lab (GIS Tutorial for ArcGIS Pro: A Platform Workbook, Chapter 5)
## Week 6, Geoprocessing - ch. 6 (Quiz #1 - no in-class lab this week)

02/17 and 02/19
Assignment #6, due 11:59 p.m., Sunday 02/25
02/17 – Lecture
Attribute proximity selections
Geoprocessing overview
Append and merge
Union and Intersect
Tabulate intersection
02/19 - Quiz #1
## Week 7, Case study & Geocoding - ch. 8

02/24 and 02/26
This week you will be assigned to case study teams following the Case Study Workshop. There are
no other assignments due this week since next week is the mid-semester break.
02/24 - Lecture
Get an overview of the geocoding process.

Geocode using ZIP Codes.

Geocode addresses using streets.

Use alias tables for place-name geocoding.
02/26 – Case Study Workshop, Part I
*** Week of March 3 - 7 is Spring Break - No Classes ***
## Week 8, Case study, Part II

03/10 and 03/12

03/10 - Case Study Workshop, Part II
03/12 - Case Study Workshop, Part II
Case Study, Part II, due 11:59 p.m., Sunday 03/16
## Week 9, Spatial Analysis - ch. 9

03/17 and 03/19
Assignment # 9 due 11:59 p.m., Monday, 02/25
03/17 - Case Study Presentations
03/19 – Lecture & Lab - Chapter 9
## Week 10, Raster GIS - ch. 10

03/24 and 03/26
Assignment # 10 due 11:59 p.m., Sunday, 03/30
03/24 - Recap of Chapter 9 work
03/26 – Lecture & lab - Chapter 10
Extract and symbolize raster maps
Create hillshade maps
Smooth point spatial data with kernel density smoothing
Build a raster-based risk index
## Week 11, New topics, Quiz #2

03/31 and 04/02
04/02- Quiz #2
** 04/03 - 04/04 is Spring Carnival - No Classes **
## Week 12 - Final Project Part I

04/07 and 04/9 - work on final projects.

Final Project Part I due 11:59 p.m. Sunday, 04/13
## Week 13 - Final Project Part II

04/14 and 04/16 - work on final projects.

Final Project Part II due 11:59 p.m. Wednesday, 04/23
## Week 14 / 15 - Final Project Part III

04/21 and 04/23 - work on final projects.

Final Project Part III due 11:59 p.m. Sunday, 04/27