# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Content Module, students, trade, class, part, Students, China, the United States, Obstfeld, U.S.
**Document Length**: 3425 words

---

# 90-860 / 88-323 Policy in a Global Economy 1:

International Trade and Trade Policy Spring 2025
Class Location and Time: M, W 11 – 12:20 PM Hamburg Hall 1006
Professor: Lee Branstetter Office Hours: By appointment
Hamburg Hall 2222
268-4649
branstet@andrew.cmu.edu
### Teaching Assistant: Liujie Wu Office Hours: Tues. 1-3 PM

liujiew@andrew.cmu.edu Fri. 9-11 AM
By appointment
Note: This is an In-Person Expectation class.

Required Materials: All required materials will be available on the Canvas webpage.

Course WebPage: This course will use the Canvas system. As of the first day of class,
all registered students should have complete access to the course web page. Important
class information, including copies of the lecture notes, videos and 1quizzes associated
with the asynchronous learning modules you should study and complete outside of
class, and graded assignments will be distributed regularly via this web page. Course
readings will also be posted on this website. Please check this web page regularly.

Course Objectives
By the beginning of the 21st Century, nations had become more economically integrated
than at any other point in human history. This presented business leaders, consumers,
and national policymakers with unprecedented opportunities and challenges. On the one
hand, the opportunity to sell to global markets rather than a single national market
increased the potential profitability of a vast range of business activities. This expanded
opportunities for employment, investment, and consumption, and it allowed giant
developing countries like India and China to enjoy rapid growth. On the other hand,
globalization increased the number and range of potential competitors in nearly every
industry, and has complicated the choices facing policymakers, whose constituents’
economic fortunes are increasingly impacted by complex economic forces which often
have their genesis far beyond the policymakers’ political jurisdiction. The real and
perceived downsides to globalization have led to a backlash that is visible in the United
States and in a number of other countries. National policy responses to the global
COVID pandemic and its associated supply chain challenges represented a substantial
movement away from closer economic integration? Finally, growing geopolitical
tension between major powers is leading to a fragmentation of the global economy
driven by national security concerns. Was globalization a mistake? Will it unravel in
the aftermath of the COVID crisis, war in Europe, and the threat of war in Asia? Or is
there a way to spread the benefits of globalization more broadly, inclusively, and
securely.

This course seeks to equip future policy and business leaders to take advantage of the
opportunities and cope with the challenges presented by globalization. Managers and
policymakers must understand the structural economic factors that determine locational
advantage and the way government policies both promote and restrain the integration of
national economies with the global economy. These issues will be studied using the
analytical tools and concepts of international economics, and case studies of particular
policy challenges will be used to relate these concepts to the practice of policymaking.

The instructor, Professor Lee Branstetter, has wrestled with these issues for more than 25
years as an academic researcher and an advisor to policymakers. From 2011-2012,
Branstetter served as the senior economist for international trade and investment on the
staff of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. He has also served as
a consultant to the World Bank, the OECD, the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade,
and Industry, the World Intellectual Property Organization, the WTO, and the U.S.

Department of Commerce. From 2012-2023, Branstetter was a nonresident senior fellow
of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, the world’s leading think tank on
international economics issues.

Outcomes Measurement
Student mastery of the fundamental concepts and analytical tools that constitute the
intellectual core of the course will be measured primarily by performance on homework
exercises and a take-home final examination. Class discussions and review sessions will
provide opportunities for students to hone their understanding of this material prior to the
examinations.

Course Structure
The course will be divided into three sections.
## Part 1 – The Economics of International Trade

This section of the course will introduce fundamental analytical frameworks used for
understanding the economic forces driving trade and the gains from trade in a global
economy. We will also consider the losses and disruptions generated by international
trade and how they have played out in recent economic history, especially that of the
United States.
## Part 2 – Trade and Industrial Policy / Inclusive Globalization

Next, we will develop frameworks for analyzing the ways the governments intervene in
international trade and industrial development. How do governments limit trade and
what are the economic effects of these policies? How do governments support domestic
industrial development in ways that are meant to alter their patterns of trade? We will
seek to use these tools to consider recent and current economic policy initiatives. Did
the Trump Administration’s trade war make sense? What about the industrial policy
initiatives of the Biden Administration? Have the economic sanctions placed by Western
powers on Russia in the aftermath of the invasion of Ukraine been effective and what
have been the costs for the United States and its allies?
## Part 3 – Contemporary International Economic Policy Challenges: Immigration and

International Policy Coordination
With the tools and frameworks developed in Parts 1 and 2, we will use them to consider
two current economic policy controversies: 1) the appropriate immigration policy for
the United States, and 2) the challenges of international policy coordination.
### Requirements and Grading:

Class participation: This is an in-person expectation class. Class discussions are an
integral part of the course, and class participation will account for 20% of the total grade.

Therefore, attendance in person is mandatory. All absences from class – except for
documented illnesses or family emergencies – must be approved in advance by the
instructor. To receive full credit for this portion of the grade, students must consistently
demonstrate through participation in class discussions that they have completed the
required readings and thought through the issues in advance of the class. Classroom
participation will be actively monitored by the instructor and the TA.

Flipped classroom quizzes: In order to free up time for class discussion, some of the
key lecture material will be pre-recorded and archived on the course website for
students to study prior to class meetings. To ensure that students are learning the
concepts provided by these pre-recorded content modules, they will include quiz
questions and/or short essay assignments. Some of these quiz questions and essay
assignments will be graded, and collectively, these quiz questions will account for 20%
of your grade. Students may collaborate in completing these quizzes and short essay
assignments. In the detailed course plan that follows, “course content module” refers to
online video content and quizzes placed on the website that students will be expected to
review prior to the designated class meeting.

Policy evaluation memos: There will be two written policy evaluation memos due in
class. These memos should be no more than 2 single- spaced pages long. They should
specifically address the questions posed for each memo. These questions will be
announced in class one week prior to the due date of the memo. Students may work on
these memos in groups, and they may submit a joint write-up, but all names of
participating students must be placed on the first page of the write-up to ensure credit.

Memos will be graded on a 10 point scale. Each memo counts for 5% of the total grade.

Collectively, they account for 20% of the total grade. Due dates will be determined
within the first 2 weeks of class.

Homework problem sets: Students will be given practice on the kinds of problems
they will encounter in the final exam through a series of graded homework exercises.

Students are allowed (and encouraged) to work in small groups to complete these
exercises. These homework exercises will collectively account for 10% of the total
grade.

Final examination: There will be a final exam that will account for 30% of the total
grade.

Student use of generative AI: The rapid emergence and widespread of generative AI
has raised important questions about its appropriate use in university classes. In this
class, students are prohibited from using generative AI on final examinations or
homework sets. Students are permitted (but not required) to use generative AI
(including ChatGPT) to write their policy evaluation memos, but students cannot simply
turn in an essay fully generated by the software. They must carefully read, edit, and,
where necessary, rewrite what the generative AI produces, in order to make it their own
work. If students use generative AI in the completion of their policy evaluation memos,
the final submitted version must include the following acknowledgement on the first
page: “This assignment was completed with the assistance of generative AI.”
Respect for Diversity: This course is premised on the belief that policy courses which
draw exclusively from the experience of the United States or Western European countries
omit much that is relevant from the human experience and from the policy record. While
maintaining some emphasis on U.S. international economic policy choices and debates,
this course is also deliberately designed to consider the lessons provided by international
economic policy in other parts of the world. It is my intent that students from all diverse
backgrounds and perspectives be well served by this course, that students’ learning needs
be addressed both in and out of class, and that the diversity that students bring to this class
be viewed as a resource, strength and benefit. Your suggestions are encouraged and
appreciated. In addition, if any of our class meetings conflict with your religious events,
please let me know so that we can make arrangements for you.

General Class Etiquette
Please come to class on time. Given the amount of material we have to cover, our time is
limited. Your absence from any part of the class shortchanges you and your classmates. I
will plan to start on time and end on time. This requires that all students be on time.

Students are discouraged from using laptops in class, except for the purposes of taking
notes. Please do not use class time to check e-mail, trade stocks, or play video games.

Students are expected to show one another courtesy and respect in classroom
discussions. Students are welcome – indeed, encouraged – to “challenge” one another’s
ideas in class, as well as the positions taken by the instructor. However, students are
expected to do so in a way that maintains an atmosphere of civility and mutual respect.

All sources used for written assignments must be appropriately cited based on standard
citation guidelines and CMU policies. Students are responsible for knowing how to cite
sources appropriately. For official CMU definitions of cheating and plagiarism, and
academic disciplinary procedures that will be followed in the case of a violation, see:
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academicintegrity.html. Plagiarism is a serious offense that can result in the student failing
the course. Note that all academic integrity violations will be reported to the Associate
Dean. Additional penalties may be imposed. See me if you have any questions about
appropriate citation before handing in an assignment.

If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I
encourage you to use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and
discuss your needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to
ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may
have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered
with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them
at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by
eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking
some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or
feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and
visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or
family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call
someone immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police
On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
### Course Outline:

Class Topic
Jan. 13 Course overview – New Dealers, Free Traders, and History Repeating
## Part 1 – The economics of international trade

Jan. 15 Labor productivity, technology, and comparative advantage
Jan. 20 University Holiday in Honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

Jan. 22 Specific factors and the politics of trade, part 1
Jan. 27 Specific factors and the politics of trade, part 2
Jan. 29 Trade, wages, and the “China syndrome”
## Part 2 — Trade and industrial policy

Feb. 3 Trade policy analysis, part 1 – are tariffs good policy?

Feb. 5 Trade policy analysis, part 2 – are tariffs good policy?

Feb. 10 Trade policy analysis, part 3 – is industrial policy a good idea?

Feb. 12 Trade policy analysis, part 4 – trade wars and trade sanctions
Feb. 17 Trade policy analysis, part 5 – policies for inclusive
globalization
Feb. 19 Policies for inclusive globalization, continued
## Part 3 — Contemporary International Economic Policy Challenges: Immigration and

Climate Change
### Feb. 24 The Economics of Immigration

### Feb. 26 Trade Policy and the Climate Change Challenge

(Date to be Final Exam
Confirmed)
### March 3-7 CMU Spring Break

Class 1 – Course Overview / New Dealers, free traders, and history repeating: the
historical roots of America’s push for globalization
January 13
### Course Content Module – New Dealers and Free Traders

Recommended Reading
Michael Beckley, “The Strange Triumph of a Broken America,” Foreign
Affairs.

Ben Bernanke, “Global Economic Integration: What’s New and What’s Not?”
Chapters 1-3, American Trade Politics
## Discussion Questions

## 1. Which party sought to close off the U.S. economy from immigration and trade

in the late 1920s?
## 2. What was the consequence of America’s shift away from globalization?

## 3. How did American policymakers seek to reintegrate the United States with the

global economy?

Class 2 – Labor productivity, technology, and comparative advantage
January 15
### Course Content Module – Introduction to Comparative Advantage

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 3 on the website
Recommended Reading
“The Miracle of Trade,” The Economist 1/27/96
Costinot, Arnaud and Dave Donaldson “Old Idea, New Insights: The Ricardian Revival
in International Trade” NBER Reporter 2017 no. 3 p.11-15
Optional Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 3
## Discussion Questions

## 1. A nation can only benefit from trade if it is productive enough to stand up to the

force of international competition: true or false?
## 2. China’s low wages make it a formidable – potentially unbeatable –

competitor in international markets: true or false?

Class 3 – Specific factors and the politics of trade
January 22
Recommended Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, 4th Edition,
## Chapter 3

Kim Clausing, Open: The Progressive Case for Free Trade, Immigration, and Open
Capital Markets, Chapter 4, “Winners and Losers from International Trade”
## Discussion Questions

## 1. What are examples of specific factors in the real U.S. economy?

## 2. How can workers with specialized skills lose out under trade liberalization?

Class 4 – Specific factors and the politics of trade, part 2
January 27
Recommended Reading
Corden and Neary, “Booming Sector and De-Industrialization in a Small Open Economy,”
Economic Journal, December 1982.

Class 5 – Trade, wages, and the China Syndrome
January 29
Recommended Reading
Autor, David, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson, “The China Syndrome” American
Economic Review, 2013.
## Discussion Questions

## 1. According to the famous paper by Autor, Dorn, and Hanson, what was the

impact of China’s export surge on U.S. manufacturing workers?
## 2. Did the U.S. still gain from trade with China?

Class 6 – Trade policy analysis, Part 1
February 3
### Course Content Module – Trade Policy, Part 1

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 3 on the website
Required Reading
“Sweet Deal, why are these men smiling? The reason is your sugar bowl,” Time, Nov.
23, 1998.
“United States Trade Law” HBS Case 9-387-137
American Trade Politics, Chapter 6.

Optional Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 8, pp.
187-218. (Reserve)
## Discussion Questions

## 1. Why do nations limit trade?

## 2. Which is worse: a tariff or a quota? Why?

## 3. Why are voluntary export restrictions (VERs) “voluntary”?

Class 7 – Trade policy analysis, Part 2 -- are tariffs a good idea, continued?

February 5
### Course Content Module – Trade Policy, Part 3

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 13 on the website
Required Reading
Chad Bown, “There Is Little Dignity in Trump’s Trade Policy: Workers Were Never at the
Heart of the President’s Plan,” Foreign Affairs, July 2020
Optional Reading
Amiti, Redding, and Weinstein, “The Impact of the 2018 Trade War on U.S. Prices and
Welfare,” NBER WP 25672 (published in Journal of Economic Perspectives Volume 33,
Number 4, Fall 2019, Pages 187–210).

Flagen, Hortascu, and Tintelnot, “The Production Relocation and Price Effects of U.S.

Trade Policy: The Case of Washing Machines,” NBER WP no. 25767, published in
American Economic Review, 2020, 110 (7), pp. 2103-27.

Fajgelbaum, Goldberg, Kennedy, and Khandelwal, “The Return to Protectionism,” NBER
Working Paper No. 25638 (published in the Quarterly Journal of Economics, 2020)
## Discussion Questions

## 1. Did the Trump Administration’s trade war generate economic benefits for the U.S.?

## 2. How did rising tariffs impact the U.S. economy?

Class 8 – Trade policy analysis , Part 3 – is industrial policy a good idea?

February 10
### Course Content Module – Trade Policy, Part 2

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 12 on the website
Required Reading
“Taiwan: Silicon Valley (East)” The Economist, 11/7/98, Survey, pp. 14-16.

Optional Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 6, pp.
121-158.
## Discussion Question

## 1. Should countries seek to protect “infant industries” from foreign competition?

## 2. When is “industrial policy” likely to work?

Class 9 – Trade policy analysis, Part 4 – trade wars and trade sanctions
February 12
### Course Content Module – Trade Policy, Part 4

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 9 on the website
### No Additional Required Reading

Class 10 – Trade policy analysis, part 5 – policies for inclusive globalization
February 17
David Autor, “Skills, Education, and the Rise of Earnings Inequality Among the Other
99 Percent,” Science 23 May 2014.

Lee Branstetter and Dan Sichel, “The Case for an American Productivity Revival,”
Policy Brief 17-26, Peterson Institute for International Economics
David Autor, “Polarization of Job Opportunities in the U.S. Labor Market: Implications for
Employment and Earnings,” Report, Center for American Progress and the Hamilton
Project.

Class 11 – Trade policy analysis, part 6 – policies for inclusive globalization. continued
February 19
Readings TBD
Class 12– The economics of immigration: fact versus fiction
February 24
### Course Content Module – Immigration

View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 16 on the website
Required Reading
Michael Clemens, “Economics and Emigration: Trillion-Dollar Bills on the Sidewalk?”
Journal of Economic Perspectives, 25 (3), Summer 2011.

Optional Reading
Kim Clausing, Chapter 8, “Immigrants, We Get the Job Done!” in Open: The Progressive
Case for Free Trade, Immigration, and Global Capital Markets.
## Discussion Questions

## 1. Compare the impact of immigration liberalization on global GDP to that of

trade liberalization? Why is the former so large?
### Class 13 – Trade Policy and the Climate Change Challenge

February 26
Course Content Module – the climate crisis and international economic policy, parts 1-2
View the videos and complete the quizzes associated with Class 26 on the website
Required Reading
William Nordhaus, “The Climate Club,” Foreign Affairs, May/June 2020
Baker, Shultz, and Halstead, “The Strategic Case for U.S. Climate Leadership,” Foreign
Affairs, May /June, 2020
Recommended Reading
Branstetter, L., and Pizer, W., “Facing the Climate Change Challenge in a Global
Economy,” in R. Feenstra and A. Taylor, (eds), Globalization in an Age of Crisis, 2014,
NBER and University of Chicago Press.
### FINAL EXAMINATION DATE: TBD

11