# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, This week, 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic, Friday, Class, February, 45%, U.S., ## 4, Challenges
**Document Length**: 1807 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

TELEVISION ECONOMICS – CLASS 93.869 (SPRING 2025)
Fridays: 10:00am -1:00pm
Pat Quinn pat@patquinnmedia.com (310) 228-8720
Francois Vallerian francois.vallerian@paramount.com (323) 956-5017
TA : Devyn Hinkle devynahinkle@gmail.com
Class 1: Friday, January 17 10:00am - 1:00pm
Class 2: Friday, January 24 10:00am - 1:00pm
Class 3: Friday, January 31 10:00am - 1:00pm
Class 4: Friday, February 7 10:00am - 1:00pm
Class 5: Friday, February 14 10:00am - 1:00pm
Class 6: Friday, February 21 10:00am - 1:00pm
Course Shifts in technology and distribution are impacting corporate business models and content creators –
Information especially in the television industry. The goal of this class is to provide students with the solid economic and
structural fundamentals of the U.S. television industry, from real life development, production and financing
paradigms to business and marketplace fundamentals (with a bit of practical theory thrown in for good
measure).
### Learning/ By the end of this course, students will be able:

Course
### Objectives* Learning Objective How Assessed

To critically examine and master the main economic models for *  Class discussion
commercial television production and distribution in the U.S. In class project
To become comfortable with the business complexities that *  Class discussion
regularly confront television creative and production executives. In class project
To learn about the life cycles of ancillary products and how they *  Class discussion
affect the potential profitability and risk of the principal programs
they are based on, including financing arrangements.

To understand how “backend” participation formulas actually play *  Class discussion
out in the real world and affect decisions to produce and/or *  In class project
distribute content.

To appreciate and become familiar with the day-to-day financial *  Class discussion
realities of TV development and production.
### Page 1 of 6

### Evaluation* The focus of the grading will be divided in the following areas:

Method
Class attendance, participation 10%
Class Project 1: Create a route to market strategy for one of the digital 45%
streamers launching in 2025
Class Project 2: Development and Production for a scripted series based on 45%
IP
Class
### Participation A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Rubric
Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and always contributes to regularly and regularly but regularly but
and the discussion by raising sometimes rarely never contributes
thoughtful questions, contributes to the contributes to the to the discussion
Quality analyzing relevant issues, discussion in the discussion in the in the
building on others’ ideas, aforementioned aforementioned aforementioned
introducing original ideas, ways. ways. ways.
synthesizing across
discussions, expanding
the class’ perspective, and
appropriately challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading
Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) F a i l i n g
Course There is no textbook. Assigned reading materials will be distributed in advance of class sessions. Materials
Materials/ for in Class Projects will be distributed during class sessions.

Readings Students are expected to stay current on events in the entertainment industry by reading DEADLINE, THE
HOLLYWOOD REPORTER and VARIETY daily.
“This week in Entertainment”: Every week for about 20 minutes, we will discuss recent news in Media /
Entertainment that may have a significant impact on the business. Students are expected to select and submit
a recent article of their choice (URL links or PDFs sent to Mary) by noon on every Thursday. You should
come prepare to discuss the article you chose.

Prior to Class 3, please watch an episode of NCIS - S15 ep. 7 and of Yellowstone (links will be provided).

The series will be featured and used as use cases throughout class.

You will also be asked to fill out a simple questionnaire at the beginning of Class 1.

Absences or Attendance is mandatory and will be reflected in the class participation portion of your grade. If you know
Tardy you are going to be late or absent, please contact me prior to class via email, pat@patquinnmedia.com or
office phone (310) 228-8720.
### Page 2 of 6

### Course OUTLINE OF COURSE TOPICS

Outline:* (Note: Class dates for topics may be approximate and order may change.)
Class 1 – Friday, January 17 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. Introductions (Teachers, Students and Class Syllabus)
## 2. Big Media and the Hollywood Studios/Consolidation and Mergers

## 3. Class Project 1: Case Study: Current streaming services (Subscription based and

Free Ad-Supported): Opportunities and Challenges – (45% of Total Grade)
## 4. Break into groups to discuss:

### Group 1 Group 3 Group 5

Jabreneé Damon Dalvina
Rachel Sofia Oghogho
Peter Camryn Pranay
Rui Yuki Zoe
### Xiru Abbie Michael Z

### Group 2 Group 4 Group 6

Adwaieet Rhythm Ritika
Karim Taylor Sahithi
Ananya Kelly Yutong
### Alejandra Michaela Michael L

Mengyi Howard Nick
Class 2 – Friday, January 24. 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. This week in Entertainment
## 2. Class Project 1 Presentation: Case Study: Current streaming services

(Subscription based and Free Ad-Supported): Opportunities and Challenges
(Powerpoint presentation)
## 3. TV and Streaming landscape in the U.S.

## 4. Point of View: Producer/Studio, Network/Buyer/Creatives

## 5. Scripted Programming “deficit financing”

## 6. Scripted “co-pro”, International Co-Productions

Class 3 – Friday, January 31 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. This week in Entertainment
## 2. Independent Production Companies

## 3. International Distribution of content and TV Markets

## 4. International formats distribution business

### Page 3 of 6

Class 4 - Friday, February 7 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. This week in Entertainment
## 2. Where is the trail of money? How are the shows financed and how do networks,

studios, streamers pull a profit?

3. “Hollywood Accounting” and Accounting Firms
## 4. Making money from a show as a profit participant, Audits

## 5. Discussion for Class Project 2: Case Study: Negotiation – development and

production of scripted series evaluating broadcast, cable and digital proposals.
(45% of Total Grade)
## 6. Break into groups to discuss:

### Group 1 Group 3 Group 5

Jabreneé Damon Dalvina
Rachel Sofia Oghogho
Peter Camryn Pranay
Rui Yuki Zoe
### Xiru Abbie Michael Z

### Group 2 Group 4 Group 6

Adwaieet Rhythm Ritika
Karim Taylor Sahithi
Ananya Kelly Yutong
### Alejandra Michaela Michael L

Mengyi Howard Nick
Class 5 - Friday, February 14 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. This week in Entertainment
## 2. Class Project 2 Presentation

## 3. Analysis of proposed deals

## 4. An explanation of Financial Interest and Syndication Rules (Fin-Syn) and how

this changed the power relationships between networks and TV producers.
## 5. Overview of the domestic Syndication business

Class 6 - Friday, February 21 10:00am -1:00pm
Topic 1. This week in Entertainment
## 2. Tax Incentives – U.S. and international

## 3. Western Europe and Canada: ownership and operation of broadcast channels,

government subsidy of content creation
## 4. The 2023 Hollywood strikes

5. “Peak TV”: Has It Peaked?
## 6. The Case for TV Revivals, Reboots and Remakes

Plagiarism Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.
and Cheating Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
Notice* violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as cheating
on an examination, including take-home as well as in-class examinations. The punishment for such offenses
can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below);

### Page 4 of 6

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data;

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

## 5. Use of a stand‐in for an exam;

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination;

## 7. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignment or

exam;
## 8. Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by an instructor

for it to be considered authorized.
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes. The source
can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from the work of another
person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore equally subject to the rules
on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that
assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending student’s
assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0) will be factored into the grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating student’s
final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and plagiarism will be submitted to
and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be imposed, up to and including expulsion
from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and outside the
classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e., plagiarism and unauthorized collaboration) is obviously
discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for violations is a failing grade for the
particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such actions may result in a failing grade for
the course.
### Artificial IT IS NOT ALLOWED IN THIS CLASS

Intelligence Any use of generative AI for any graded component of this course is explicitly
Policy: prohibited. Using ChatGPT or other generative AI to generate any course content will be considered an
academic integrity violation.

Your Well Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising,
Being avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve
your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful resources
available and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support
sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or
depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is
here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching
out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.
### Page 5 of 6