# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 2:30 pm, 5:45pm, Plagiarism, AI, the industry, plagiarism, an assignment, the course, students
**Document Length**: 1350 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

Course FILM EXHIBITION MANAGEMENT – CLASS 93.873 L (SPRING 2025)
### Information Managing the Exhibition Value Chain Successfully

Sat February 1 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Fri February 21 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Fri March 21 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Professors: Miguel Mier Esparza mmier@cinepolis.com
Alberto Alcaraz Aguilar aalcaraz@cinepolis.com
### I. Rationale:

The Film exhibition Industry is a key part of the Entertainment Industry. It has been in constant
evolution, now perhaps more than ever. Understanding the drivers, trends, challenges and opportunities
of the industry is key to drive innovation in Entertainment.
### II. Course Aims and Objectives:

At the end of the course, students will be able to understand and identify the critical factors in the
success of film exhibition management in order to make the best decisions based on strategic, financial
and customer experience perspectives.

The course will allow students to contribute value to any of the three perspectives of the film industry´s
value chain: production, distribution or exhibition.
### Learning/Course By the end of the course, students should be able to:

Objectives*
Learning Objective
Understand the history and state of the industry considering global results, macro trends, new
players, and main challenges.

Understand the financial rationale behind the exhibition industry.

Identify the key drivers of the future of the industry and analyze probable shifts in its value
chain.

Analyze a real world case of a cinema exhibition company including its history, current strategy
and future plans
Understand how current events affect the industry and propose solutions and innovative ideas
for a specific case.

Analyze the impact of the storytelling as the core of the cinematic experience.

Develop and propose an innovation process to the Exhibition Industry using the Design
Thinking framework.

Absences/Tardy: Attendance is mandatory and will be reflected in the class participation portion of your grade. As we’re
going to be meeting only three times, you will not be allowed to miss a session. If you have any
questions about this please see me and Program Director, Dan Green as soon as possible.

Suggested Reading: *  The power of movies: How Screen and Mind Interact.

Mcginn, Colin
*  Anderson, C. (“The Long Tail: Why the Future of Business is Selling Less of More".

Evaluation*
## Method Participation 10%

Assignment #1 45%
Assignment #2 (final project) 45%
### Class Participation Grading for Class Participation

Rubric As participation is a major factor in the grading of this class, I’m including a rubric for how I will be
grading. Again, if you read the assigned articles and contribute in class you should be fine.
### A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and always contributes to regularly and regularly but regularly but
and the discussion by raising sometimes rarely never
thoughtful questions, contributes to the contributes to the contributes to
Quality analyzing relevant issues, discussion in the discussion in the the discussion
building on others’ ideas, aforementioned aforementioned in the
synthesizing across ways. ways. aforementioned
readings and discussions, ways.
expanding the class’
perspective, and
appropriately challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
Course/Topical Class 1: Sat February 1 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Outline
### Topic *  Cinema Business 101

*  Understanding the Experience.
*  Cinepolis Case.
*  How the business works: financial structure & pricing.
*  Storytelling.
*  Content Management.

Required
### Reading:

Class 2: Fri February 21 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Topic *  The competitive landscape fo the Exhibition Industry
*  Exhibition Industry review.
*  2025 Trends to watch.
### *  Evolving the cinematic experience

*  Evolving the experience.

Required How Competitive Forces Shape Strategy (hbr.org)
### Reading:

Deliverable *  Assignment 1: Heroic Press Conference Game (team assignment).

Class 3: Fri March 21 at 2:30 pm – 5:45pm
Special Guest Lecturer: Daphne S. Leger daphne.leger@gmail.com
### Topic Innovation in the exhibition sector as a differentiation strategy (Workshop):

### *  Intro

### *  Assignment 1 Presentations

*  Why Innovation?
### *  History of Cinepolis innovation

### *  Innovation Process

### *  Your Innovation Challenge

### *  Challenge Context/Insights

### *  Break (5 min)

### *  Challenge Inspiration

### *  Ideation

### *  Assignment 2

### *  Q&A

### Required The Explainer: Design Thinking - HBR Video

Reading
Deliverable *  Assignment 2: Innovation Proposal (team assignment).

Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.
cheating notice* Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take-home as well as in-class examinations. The punishment for
such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below);

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data;

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

## 5. Use of a stand‐in for an exam;

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination;

## 7. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignment or

exam;
## 8. Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by an

instructor for it to be considered authorized.
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or
footnotes. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived
from the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is
therefore equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that
assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending student’s
assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0) will be factored into the
grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating
student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and plagiarism will
be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be imposed, up to and
including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and
outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e., plagiarism and unauthorized
collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for
violations is a failing grade for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such
actions may result in a failing grade for the course.

Artificial In this class, you are welcome to use generative AI programs such as ChatGPT or DALL-E.

Intelligence Policy: Suggested uses include
⬡ Brainstorm new ideas
⬡ Develop example outlines or approaches to your work
⬡ Research topics, or generate different ways to talk about a problem
### You may not use AI to

⬡ Generate content that you cut and paste into an assignment with a written component without
quotations and a citation
⬡ Generate content that is not adequately paraphrased without a citation
⬡ Generate bibliographies for topics that you haven’t researched yourself
⬡ Generate other content (images, video, others) unless expressly permitted and following provided
guidance.
⬡ Otherwise use or present generative AI content that you pass off as your own work, when really it is
not
### If you use AI

⬡ You must acknowledge the use of AI tools within your work.
⬡ You should recognize that large language models often provide incorrect information, fake citations,
contradictory statements or incorporate plagiarized materials
5