# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Copyright, Pages, Inc., 10:00 am, final exam, plagiarism, CLASS, lawyers, Plagiarism
**Document Length**: 1143 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

Carnegie Mellon University Master of Entertainment Industry Management (MEIM)
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY – CLASS [93-855] (SPRING 2025)
Instructor: Adam Hime (adamhime@icloud.com)
### COURSE OVERVIEW:

The objective of this course is to provide students with a practical understanding of the underlying legal principles of
intellectual property laws regulating the creation and exhibition of entertainment content. The class covers the basic legal
concepts of intellectual property law, including case study, but is aimed at non-lawyers and non-law students.
### ABSENCES/ TARDY POLICY:

Attendance is mandatory. If you know you are going to be late or absent, please contact me prior to class via email
(above) or office phone (818) 930-1183.
### READINGS:

There will be no formal textbook. Assigned reading packets will be distributed prior to the first class session and may be
supplemented occasionally with materials handed out during class sessions.
### COURSE OBJECTIVES:

Objective Assessed Through
To examine and understand the various intellectual property laws in the United Class discussion and final exam.

States that impact entertainment production and exhibition.

To learn the fundamental differences between the various intellectual property Class discussion and final exam.
disciplines and be equipped to identify when one or more areas of intellectual
property law may apply to given situation in the entertainment industry
To provide an overview of Copyright, Patent and Trademark law in the United Class discussion and final exam.

States and how it may impact non-lawyers in the entertainment industry
To understand the basics of Trade Secret and unfair competition law Class discussion and final exam.

To recognize advanced Intellectual Property Concepts, such as Ownership, Class discussion
### Enforcement and International Considerations

### GRADING:

### Final Exam = 80% of Total Grade

### Participation = 20% of Total Grade

GRADING GUIDELINES: The Heinz policy for grading is as follows:
A+ 99.0 - 100% Exceptional
A 94.0 - 98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0 - 93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0 - 90.9% Good
B 84.0 - 87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0 - 83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0 - 80.9% Poor
C 74.0 - 77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0 - 73.9% Minimum Passing
R Below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
### HEINZ POLICY ON PLAGIARISM:

Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters. Misrepresentation
of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious violations. The violation is clearly
flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as cheating on an examination, including take- home as
well as in- class examinations. The punishment for such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and
### Heinz School. Cheating includes, but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below).

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own.

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data.

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment.

## 5. Use of a stand-in for an exam.

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination.

## 7. Supplying/communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignment or exam.

## 8. Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by an instructor for it to be

considered authorized.
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or footnotes. The source can be a
phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived from the work of another person. Note that
material on the web is another person’s work and is therefore equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating
as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for that assignment.

The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending student’s assignments included in
grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0) will be factored into the grade. Furthermore, the cheating student’s
grade shall be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition,
cases of cheating and plagiarism will be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may
be imposed, up to and including expulsion from the Heinz School.
### CLASS POLICY ON AI:

Any use of generative AI for any graded component of this course is explicitly prohibited. Using ChatGPT or other generative
AI to generate any course content will be considered an academic integrity violation.

### SYLLABUS, READING LIST, AND OUTLINE OF COURSE TOPICS:

### Class Summary of Primary Topics Reading Material

Date/Time
### *  Introductions Course Materials, Pages 1-31

CLASS #1 *  Introduction to Principles *  U.S. Constitution, Article 1, § 8
of Intellectual Property for *  Principal Differences Between Intellectual Property Disciplines
Sat., 1/18 non-lawyers
### *  Understanding the

10:00 am Differences between
Trademark, Copyright, and
Patent
### *  Fundamentals of Course Materials, Pages 32-46

CLASS #2 Trademark and Trade *  Dreamwerks Production Group, Inc. v. SKG Studio, dba
Dress Law DreamWorks (9th Cir. 1998)
Sat., 1/25 *  Blurring/Tarnishment *  United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) Trademark
*  Protection of Trademark Basics, https://www.uspto.gov/trademarks-getting10:00 am Rights started/trademark-basics#
### *  Fundamentals of Copyright Course Materials, Pages 47-89

### CLASS #3 Law *  17 U.S. Code § 102

### *  Protection of Copyright *  15 Years Ago, Congress Kept Mickey Mouse out of the Public

Sat., 2/1 *  Idea Theft Domain. Will They Do it Again? Timothy B. Lee, The
### *  Public Domain Washington Post, October 25, 2013

10:00 am *  Copyright Meets “Innocence of Muslims”, Eugene Volokh, The
Washington Post, February 26, 2014
*  Finally! Victory for Free Speech in Garcia v. Google, Corynne
McSherry, Electronic Frontier Foundation, May 18, 2015
*  *Hollywood Screentest of America, Inc. v. NBC Universal, Inc.
(Cal. App. 2007)
### *  Fundamentals of Course Materials, Pages 47-89 (Continued)

CLASS #4 Copyright Law *  *Brownmark Films LLC v. Comedy Partners et al. (ED Wisc.,
(Continued) 2011) and (7th Cir., 2012)
Sat., 2/15 *  Protection of Copyright
### *  Fair Use

10:00 am
### *  Fundamentals of Patent Course Materials, Pages 90-98

CLASS #5 Law *  Dish, EchoStar Settle TiVo Patent Litigation, Steven Russolillo,
### *  Fundamentals of Trade Wall Street Journal, May 3, 2011

Sat., 2/22 Secret Law
### *  Throwback Thursday: 20 Years Ago, a Midnight Break In

### *  Advanced Concepts in IP:

### Launched Endeavor, Bill Higgins, The Hollywood Reporter,

10:00 am Ownership and
April 23, 2015
Enforcement
Considerations *  CAA vs. UTA, Corporate Raiding and the Ghost of Ed Limato
(Analysis), Matthew Belloni, The Hollywood Reporter, March
31, 2015
*  Advanced Concepts in IP: No outside reading is assigned for this class session.

CLASS #6 International
Considerations
### Sat, 3/1 *  Review Session

### *  FINAL EXAM

10:00 am