# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Software Security, Students, Canvas, Security Flaws, students, the quiz, Assignment, 10%, Week
**Document Length**: 734 words

---

# 95-748: Software and Security

Spring 2025
Instructor: Hasan Yasar
hyasar@cmu.edu, 412.268.9219
TA: Meghna Desai, meghnapd@andrew.cmu.edu
Priyanka Mall, pmall2@andrew.cmu.edu
Location and Time: HBH 1206, Monday, 06:30-09:20PM
Course Description: This course exposes students with limited exposure to programming and
software engineering development foundational concepts to enable further understanding of the
challenges of insecure and vulnerable software. Students are exposed to basic programming
constructs (such as variables, control structures, data structures, programming syntax) as well as
the basic principles of object-oriented programming languages. The course also surveys the types
of threats and vulnerabilities inherent in software and the origins of these deficiencies. A brief
overview of secure coding concepts, principles and techniques are provided to students to
provide exposure to how software can be made more secure and resilient and how security can
be part of overall software development process.
### Textbooks Optional:

### *  Software Security - Building Security In, Author: Gary McGraw, ISBN: 0321356705

### *  Agile Application Security: Enabling Security in a Continuous Delivery Pipeline, ISBN:

978-1491938843
### Assignments and Grading:

Final course grade: 10% Participation (online discussion/email/chat or participation to
the live sessions)
30% Quizzes
60% Project
pg. 1

Participation: Students are expected to participate in class activities and discussions
on virtual platform (e.g. live session or discussion board).

Quizzes: Quizzes will be administered through Canvas and will occur weekly.

Students will have two days to complete the quiz. There will be a timer
set for each quiz lasting between 10 and 15 minutes and students will
be forced to complete the quiz once starting the quiz.

Assignment: Assignment assignments will be available via Canvas. Assignment is due
on the date specified.
### Course Policies:

Late Assignment: Assignment will be accepted up to 3 days late. The maximum grade for
the assignment will decrease by 10% for each day late.

Collaboration: Students are encouraged to talk with each other, the TAs, and the
instructor about the course and any assignments. Any assistance,
though, must be limited to discussion of the problem and sketching
general approaches to a solution. Each student must write out his or her
own solutions to all problems, unless otherwise stated by the instructor.

Consulting another student's or group's solution is prohibited, and
submitted solutions may not be copied in any part from any source
unless properly cited. These and any other form of unauthorized
collaboration on assignments constitute cheating. If you have any
questions about whether some activity would constitute cheating,
please feel free to ask.

Academic Dishonesty: All instances of cheating or plagiarism will be dealt with according to the
“CMU Policy on Cheating and Plagiarism,” which can be found at:
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html. Policy
violations will be dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Potential penalties
include, but are not limited to, zero credit for the assignment and/or
failure of the course.
### Course Schedule:

Key Dates: Jan 13th - First week
Jan 27th - Project Announcement
Feb 28th - Project Due
Course Topics: The following is a brief list of potential course topics:
pg. 2

### *  Software Security Problems, Principles and Secure Risk Management Framework

### *  Set of Software Security Best practices

### *  Secure Software Design and Development

### *  Software Security in Enterprise Business

Learning Objectives;
### *  Investigate Software Security Problems and understand Principles and Secure Risk

Management Framework
### *  Understand Set of Software Security Best practices

### *  Understand and practices Secure Software Design and Development practices

### *  Learn How to implement Software Security in Enterprise Business

### Lectures Plan:

### *  January 13th – Week -1: Introduction, Software Security Problems

### *  January 20th – Week 2: MLK Day No Classes

### *  January 27th – Week -3: Software Assurance Model: Risk Management Framework

(Ch2 Software Security), Security Best practices/ Known Security Flaws
### *  February 3rd – Week -4: Common Security Vulnerabilities -1 : Security Flaws –

Application Low Level Vulnerabilities, Web applications, Cryptographic/Access controls,
Networking
### *  February 10th – Week-5: Common Security Vulnerabilities -2 : Security Flaws –

Application Low Level Vulnerabilities, Web applications, Cryptographic/Access controls,
Networking
### *  February 17th – Week -6: Secure Software Design and Development, Security Testing

(Penn testing, Risk- Based Security Testing, Code Review, Architecture Risk Analysis –
Ch3, 4,5,6,7 - Software Security)
### *  February 24th – Week-7: Security Testing (Abuse Cases- Operational testing – Ch8,9)

Software Security in Enterprise Business/ Large Scale Software Development (Ch10Software Security), Review
pg. 3