# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, MODULE, the course, 30%, 95, Spring 2025, Syllabus, Digital Signatures, students, 180 day
**Document Length**: 1242 words

---

# CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY

Heinz College
# 95-749 Cryptography

Spring 2025 (Mini 4)
Syllabus, v2.0
### G e n e r a l

### Instructor / Course Support

Instructor: Dr. Robert Beveridge: rbeverid@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours and Location: *By appointment. TA’s will be setting office hours
TA: TBD
### Book:

### Cryptography and Network Security, 8th edition, by William Stallings:

## 1. Go to cmu.redshelf.com. Search for the title with the ISBN 9780135764268 which will cost

$34.99 for 180 day digital rental or $54.99 for digital purchase. View details, add to cart, check
out. The eBook will be on the RedShelf shelf.
## 2. Go to bookstore.web.cmu.edu. Click on the arrow down below “Textbooks” and choose “Online

Bookstore.” Find the course and choose which option you want. All 3 options will appear
there: 180 day digital rental ($34.99), digital purchase (54.99), or loose-leaf ($73.50). Any
digital content will be on the VitalSource Bookshelf.

RedShelf and VitalSource both provide access to the same digital content and both are very similar with
highlighting options, notes, etc. Some students may have a preference for one over the other so it is
nice to offer either option. The print option is only available through option #2 above.

Course Description
### This course emphasizes practical employment of cryptography. Topics in this course include:

* the techniques used to design cryptographic mechanisms (block ciphers, stream ciphers, hash
algorithms, digital certificates, and others)
* how these mechanisms have been incorporated into modern security technologies
* when/how to apply these methods to incorporate security into cyber activities
Learning Objectives
### Cryptography: Purpose and Ethical Considerations

### The Mechanisms Behind Cryptography

# 95-749 Syllabus

Spring 2025
Block Ciphers
Stream Ciphers
Hash Functions
Public Key Cryptography
Public Key Infrastructures
Digital Signatures
### Extensible Authentication and Cryptography

Commercial Cryptography Deployments
Prerequisites
No prerequisites; however, there is an expectation that students have a general knowledge of IT
principles and cyber security topics, and familiarity with mathematical principles. This includes
the use of Virtual machine software such as VMware for windows and or Mac and/or Virtualbox.

Student computers should have enough resources to run at least 1 virtual machine (4 GB of
memory and 20GB of free disk space is recommended)
Course Management
All course materials will be managed through Canvas, including assignments and other
information. Check frequently to ensure you have the latest information about the course.

Topical readings that support the course lectures may be added. These readings will be posted
under the course schedule portion of the syllabus. Students are expected to read the material as
part of the course materials. In some cases, these readings will be integrated to homework
assignments.
### Course Updates and Changes

This syllabus represents the course plan as conceived at the beginning of the semester but is
subject to change and modification by the instructor at any time. Advanced notice will be
provided to students through Canvas announcements, and when necessary, an updated syllabus
will be issued.
### Lectures, Assignments and Exams

## 1. The block quizzes are 30% of the course grade.

## 2. The Week4 Project worth 30% of the grade.

## 3. Assignments and challenges throughout the course is worth 10% of the grade

## 4. There will be a final project to explain an implementation of a complete cryptosystem in

enterprise environments. This project will be 30% of the total course grade. This may be
a group assignment.

Page 2

# 95-749 Syllabus

Spring 2025
## 5. Late Submissions: Homework is due at 11:59 pm on the assigned due date (Eastern U.S.

Time Zone). Penalty for late submissions is 25% per day. NOTE: Quizzes are only
allowed to be ‘made up’ under exceptional circumstances. See the instructor (in
advance if possible) to request an exception to this policy.

Recorded lectures will be posted (more information to come)
Grading Rubric
### Grading Rubric Interpretation Point Totals GPA

Letter
A+ Exceptional 96.6 – 100 4.33
A Excellent 93.3 – 96.5 4.00
A- Very Good 90.0 – 93.2 3.67
B+ Good 86.6 – 89.9 3.33
B Acceptable 83.3 – 86.5 3.00
B- Fair 80.0 – 83.2 2.67
C+ Poor 76.6 – 79.0 2.33
C Very Poor 73.3 – 76.5 2.00
C - Minimal Passing 70.0 – 73.2 1.67
### D Failing Below 70 0

Attendance Policy
Attendance is mandatory when being taught on campus. Online accommodation may be made if
appropriate and if sanctioned by the university. Student progress will be driven by block quiz
completions, so consistent work toward completion is expected.

Classroom Etiquette
This is a Master’s level course taught as part of a professional degree program. Accordingly,
you are expected to conduct yourself in a professional manner during the course and not
engage in behavior in the class that would be considered unacceptable in the workplace. If you
have a question about the content of the lecture, please direct it to me. If you are confused
about an issue, chances are your classmates are confused as well. Sharing your questions with
the group is a great way to help all students advance through the course and is encouraged.
### Policy on Cheating and Plagiarism

For any assignment found to be the partial or complete result of cheating or plagiarism, your
grade for that assignment will be zero. Cheating is defined as inappropriate collaboration
among students on an assignment or failure to cite others’ work used in the submissions,
evaluation materials or presentations. This can include copying someone else’s work with or
without alteration. When students are found to be collaborating in this way, ALL
Page 3

# 95-749 Syllabus

Spring 2025
COLLABORATORS will pay the penalty regardless of who originated the work. Please refer to the
University’s policies here: http://www.cmu.edu/policies/StudentPolicy.html
### Student Wellness and Student Accommodations

The College and this course always have the student’s best interest as a foundational goal. As
such, this course is conducted to support all University policies regarding accommodating
verified student needs, and supporting student health in general.
## Module Schedule Dates

Modules below were mapped to weeks in the 8-week course. This summer course is designed
around the schedule below. Materials will be available in advance and can be completed early
but must be completed by the block end dates to avoid late penalties.
### MODULE 1: March 10 - 14

### MODULE 2: March 17 - 19

### MODULE 3: March 24 - 26

### MODULE 4: March 31 – Apr 2

### MODULE 5: April 7 - 9

### MODULE 6: April 14 - 16

### MODULE 7: April 21 – 23

### MODULE 8: April 28 - 30 - Final Project

### Final Project Due May 3

Page 4

# 95-749 Syllabus

Spring 2025
C o u r s e A g e n d a
## Module Topic Notes

### 1 NETWORK SECURITY CONCEPTS

# CRYPTOGRAPHY BASICS AND

# BEGINNINGS

Stallings Ch1, Ch3
### 2 BLOCK AND STREAM

NIST-adopted—DES, 3DES, AES
### Block and Stream Stallings Ch4

### Stallings Ch6, 7, 8

3 ASYMMETRIC ENCRYPTION
PKI,key exchanges, digital
signatures, Certificates Stallings CH9, CH10
4 HASH FUNCTIONS
Message digest, Algorithms Stallings Ch 11, CH12
Hash functions
5 APPLIED CRYPTOGRAPHY
E-mail, S/Mime, Third Party Trust Stallings Ch 13, CH16 , 17, Ch
TLS /SSL 19
Securing the host
Digital Signatures and secure e-mail
### 6 Network Security Stallings CH 18, CH20

PKI systems and PKCS; SSL vs. TLS
### Email and User Auth

7 Advanced topics
Final Project handout
8 Final Project development
Page 5