# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, 20%, Students, the course, students, Work, Inequality, class, 12, 50%
**Document Length**: 6308 words

---

# ____________________________________________________________
# 90-745 / 90-475 Methods of Policy Analysis – The Future of Work

Spring 2025
____________________________________________________________
Class Time: Tues., Thurs. 5:00-6:20 PM Location: Hamburg Hall 2003
### Professor:

Lee Branstetter Office Hours: By appointment
Hamburg Hall 2222 (via Zoom)
268-4689
branstet@andrew.cmu.edu
Teaching Assistant: Office Hours: Tuesdays 9-11 AM
Cameron Drayton Fridays 4:30-6 PM
cdrayton@andrew.cmu.edu (via Zoom)
Project Advisor: Office Hours: TBD (via Zoom)
Andrew Breazeale
abreazea@andrew.cmu.edu
Required Materials: Students will be required to use the Canvas website to access course
materials, including lecture notes and some of the required readings.

Course Objectives: After decades of slow wage growth and rising inequality, many American
workers now fear even worse outcomes as new technologies increasingly replace human labor.

Is this likely to occur? How will emerging technologies reshape the U.S. labor market? How
important is the “gig economy,” and how big might it become? What impact will the shocks
generated by the COVID crisis and rising inflation have on employment and income inequality
in the short run and the long run? What can policy makers do to ensure that the growth of the
American economy is more inclusive and equitable? This course has been designed to help
Heinz students (and other interested CMU students) think seriously and rigorously about the
future of work in the 21st century American economy. The course will place current concerns in
the broader context of the major structural shifts in the U.S. labor market over the past several
decades. Drawing upon the most recent quantitative analyses, the course will show that
technological change has contributed to increasingly unequal outcomes in the U.S. labor market,
and that this trend is likely to continue as a new wave of technological change unfolds. The
course will also consider the degree to which globalization, immigration, rising monopoly power,
declining union strength, minimum wage laws, and discrimination based on race and gender
have contributed to rising inequality in U.S. incomes. The course will draw upon frontier
research to identify old and new policy ideas that could help make economic growth more
inclusive, and it will bring into the class policy entrepreneurs who are making a real difference.

Systems Project Options: The course will offer three different pathways for students to engage
with the material. Two of these pathways involve the “project options.” These options pair
MOPA – Future of Work with a systems synthesis projects linked to the content and themes of
the course. Students will not just study the problems associated with the future of work – they
will also get directly involved in the generation of meaningful solutions by completing original
policy analyses for government agencies and nonprofits seeking to make that future more
equitable. In order to be eligible for these options, students must also be registered for one of the
affiliated systems projects. Students will be assisted by one of two project group advisors, Heinz
Ph.D. candidate Andrew Breazeale or Heinz Doctoral Student and Dean’s Fellow Cameron
Drayton, who will meet with them regularly to provide analytical and administrative support.

Systems Project Option #1: Project + “MOPA Lite”
These students will not be required to take midterm or final exams, and will have reduced
homework assignments. Students electing this option will get 6 units of credit for the MOPA
course and 12 units of credit for their course-affiliated systems project.

Systems Project Option #2: Project + “Full MOPA”
These students will take the full course, including the midterm, the final exam, and all homework
assignments. Students electing this option will also get 12 units of credit for the MOPA course
and 12 units of credit for their course-affiliated systems project.

No Project Option: Students interested in the course material but not interested in undertaking
independent group projects have the option of being evaluated through a series of policy essays,
a midterm exam, and a final exam. The grading and evaluation system for these students is
described in further detail below.

Pre-requisites: The only pre-requisite for this course is an introduction to applied
microeconomics at the level of Applied Microeconomic Analysis, the required course for Heinz
College MSPPM students. However, students should be prepared to make extra effort to acquire
understanding of such basic economics frameworks and analytical tools as the course and the
tasks provided to our students by our institutional clients may require.

Course Structure: The course can be divided into six conceptually distinct content modules.
## Part 1 –Technology, Skills, Inequality, and the Future of Work. An appropriate understanding

of the future of work has to begin with a solid understanding of the major structural changes in
the U.S. labor market over the past four decades. This content module will focus on the
well-documented phenomenon of skill-biased technical change. As our technology of
production has advanced, demand for highly skilled labor has risen robustly while demand for
the least skilled workers has weakened. Scientific study of rising income inequality reveals that
the growing imbalance between the demand for high levels of skill and its supply is the single
most important factor driving increased income inequality over the past four decades. We will
examine how the next wave of new technologies might exacerbate this long-running trend, and
what public policies could be put in place to ensure that American workers possess the skills the
21st century labor market will demand.
## Part 2 – Immigration, International Trade, and the Future of Work. Prominent voices on the

left and right of the political spectrum in the United States have blamed rising inequality and
stagnating incomes on foreign goods and foreign workers. We will use the conceptual tools of
international economics and labor economics to examine these claims. The scientific evidence
suggests that immigration and international trade have both brought significant benefits far
greater than their costs, and that neither has been the primary driver of rising inequality over the
past generation. That being said, both immigration and trade policy could be reformed to
maximize the economic benefits of immigration and international trade while minimizing their
social costs.
## Part 3 – Geography and the Future of Work. In 21st century America, economic growth and

opportunity are increasingly concentrated in particular areas and regions. Even within cities,
access to high-quality schools, jobs, social services, and opportunities for economic advancement
is often very inequitably distributed. This section of the course will examine the forces behind
the changing geography of growth and opportunity in the 21st century American economy and
review potential public policy responses.
## Part 4 – Market Power, Redistribution, and the Future of Work. Some prominent politicians

and labor union leaders have blamed the rise in inequality on the declining power of labor unions
and the rising monopoly/monopsony power of leading corporations. We will critically examine
the role played by declining union density and monopoly/monopsony power in driving rising
inequality. We will also examine policy proposals for redistribution of wealth and income.
## Part 5 – The Gig Economy, the COVID Crisis, Rising Inflation, and the Future of Work. The

rise of Uber and Lyft and the increasing popularity of other online work platforms such as
Upwork have led some to envision a future labor market in which work assignments and
compensation flow through online platforms rather than traditional firms. This section of the
course will review the latest research on the gig economy, place its growth and current size in the
appropriate context, and examine whether new labor laws, regulations, or practices are needed to
support gig economy workers. This section will also examine the short-run and long-run impact
of the COVID crisis on U.S. labor markets. Since the sharp rise in U.S. and global inflation
stems in part from the COVID crisis and policy reactions to it, we will also consider the
economic impact of rising inflation and the options available to policymakers to bring it under
control.
## Part 6 – Race, Gender, Class, and the Future of Work. Discrimination on the basis of race and

gender has been a longstanding feature of the U.S. labor market, but recent events have reminded
all of us of the degree to which economic opportunity remains shaped by race and gender in 21st
century America. This section of the course will provide students with a number of perspectives
on these problems, including the formal models economists use to analyze and quantify
discrimination in the labor market. We will also review a series of recent studies that appear to
quantify a significant deterioration in the health and socioeconomic well-being of the white
working class.

Student Projects – (Relevant Only for Students Taking the Systems Project Options)
Long-Run Impact Evaluation of CCAC IT and Cybersecurity Programs on Income and
Employment
As the largest community college in the region, CCAC has long played a critical role in enabling
Pittsburgh area residents of all backgrounds to build skills and improve their economic prospects.

Like many other education and training providers, however, CCAC has limited visibility into the
longer-run career trajectories of its graduates. Which programs are truly succeeding at putting
their graduates on a pathway to prosperous jobs and lives in the changing U.S. labor market?

This project will focus on CCAC’s IT and cybersecurity programs. The project will seek to
combine the data resources of CCAC with those of Allegheny County’s Department of Human
Services (ACDHS), which track a wide range of socioeconomic variables for county residents.
(In doing so, we will leverage a longstanding relationship with ACDHS and an existing data
sharing agreement between CMU and ACDHS.) In particular, this would enable the estimation
of “wage trajectory” models that show how the incomes of program graduates evolve over the
first decade after graduation. This, in turn, could provide useful information to CCAC’s senior
leadership, as they seek to optimize their investment of resources across their portfolio of
programs. It could also provide useful information to state and national policymakers who are
considering a large investment in community college capacity, but are unsure which programs to
designate for expansion.

Group Advisor: Andrew Breazeale, abreazea@andrew.cmu.edu
Long-Run Impact Evaluation of the Trade Institute of Pittsburgh’s Programs on Recidivism and
Related Social Outcomes
The Trade Institute of Pittsburgh (TIP) is a non-profit organization and vocational training
provider dedicated to providing opportunities for individuals with barriers to employment and
others who need additional supports to begin their careers. The Trade Institute is located in the
Homewood community of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Founded in 2013, the Trade Institute has
engaged and empowered men and women throughout Allegheny County to meet a growing need
for skilled tradespeople. TIP offers a 10-week tuition-free training program in masonry and
carpentry, life skills courses, and social service supports. Students are matched with a job in a
variety of trades or trade-related fields upon graduation.

TIP seeks to significantly reduce recidivism (i.e., a return to criminal activity) among its
graduates, but a lack of data makes the efficacy of these programs hard to evaluate. If TIP does
not know what is working and what is not working, it Is hard to know how to improve its
programs. This year’s Heinz team will seek to provide TIP’s leaders with rigorous statistical
estimates of the impact of participation in its programs on the recidivism of its graduates. To
accomplish this goal, a Heinz team will analyze anonymized data in which TIP student records
have been merged with comprehensive data from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on the
interaction of TIP graduates with the criminal justice system, before and after their participation
in TIP programs. These comprehensive data will enable a detailed statistical analysis of the
degree to which TIP has succeeded in attaining these goals as its programs have evolved and
changed. Outcomes for TIP graduates will be compared with the outcomes of area residents who
expressed interest in TIP programs or even enrolled in them, but did not graduate.
### Group Advisor: Cameron Drayton

### Requirements and Grading:

The way students are evaluated in this course will differ substantially, depending on which
course option they have chosen. These pathways are outlined below.
### No Project Option Student Evaluation

Class participation – 10%. Class discussions are an integral part of the course, and class
participation will account for 10% of the total grade. Unexcused absences from class or
persistent tardiness in coming to class are grounds for reductions (50% or more) in this
component of the grade. To receive full credit for this portion of the grade, students must
consistently demonstrate through participation in class discussions that they have completed the
required readings and thought through the issues in advance of the class.

Flipped Classroom Quizzes – 20%. In order to free up additional time for class discussion, a
number of the key lectures will be pre-recorded and archived on the course website for
students to study prior to class meetings. To ensure that students are learning the concepts
provided by these pre-recorded content modules, they will include quiz questions and/or short
essay assignments. Some of these quiz questions and essay assignments will be graded, and
collectively, these quiz questions will account for 20% of your grade. Students may
collaborate in completing these quizzes and short essay assignments. Grading policy: full
credit for any questions complete by the start of the focal class, 10% off if they submit later
that day but after class, 20% off for each additional day late.

Quizzes / Homeworks / Policy Essays – 20%. As we move through the course, you will be
required to complete short evaluation exercises designed to measure your understanding of the
material we will review and discuss in class. “No project” option students and “Full MOPA”
students will complete 4-5 of them. They will collectively account for 20% of your total grade.

Midterm Examination – 20%. Students will be required to complete a take-home midterm
roughly halfway through the course. Project option students will be excused from this exam.

The exam will be open-book and open-note, but no collaboration will be permitted. Students
will have 100 minutes to complete the test.

Final Examination – 30%. Students will be required to take a comprehensive and cumulative
final exam during the regular final exam period. The exam will be open-book and open-note, but
no collaboration will be allowed.

Students taking the “Project + Full MOPA” option will be evaluated in the same way as the “no
project” students, receiving the full 12 credits from the course according to the grading rubric
described above and the full 12 credits from the systems project according to the grading rubric
described below.

Project Option “MOPA Lite” Student Evaluation
Class participation – 20%. Class discussions are an integral part of the course, and class
participation will account for 20% of the total grade for “MOPA Lite” students. Unexcused
absences from class or persistent tardiness in coming to class are grounds for reductions (50% or
more) in this component of the grade. To receive full credit for this portion of the grade, students
must consistently demonstrate through participation in class discussions that they have
completed the required readings and thought through the issues in advance of the class.

Flipped Classroom Quizzes – 30%. Key “lecture” material will be pre-recorded and
archived on the course website for students to study prior to class meetings. To ensure that
students are learning the concepts provided by these pre-recorded content modules, they will
include quiz questions and/or short essay assignments. Some of these quiz questions and
essay assignments will be graded, and collectively, these quiz questions will account for 30%
of the grade of “MOPA Lite” students. Students may collaborate in completing these quizzes
and short essay assignments.

Short essays/Homeworks – 50%. As we move through the course, you will be required to
complete short evaluation exercises designed to measure your understanding of the material we
will review and discuss in class. Project option “MOPA Lite” students will complete only two of
these evaluations– one in the first half of the course and one in the second half. They will
collectively account for 50% of your total course grade.

Project Evaluation (For Students Enrolled in an Affiliated Systems Project)
Project meeting participation – 20%. Project meetings are an integral part of the project
development process, and participation in these meetings will account for 20% of the total grade.

Unexcused absences or persistent tardiness are grounds for reductions (50% or more) in this
component of the grade. Each group will need to hold a separate set of group meetings outside
of MOPA class time. Please work with your designated group advisor to determine these times.

Project Related Benchmarks–20%. As you work with your fellow group members to
complete your class-affiliated systems project, you will have to undertake a set of activities that
will help you prepare for your group presentations. These activities and their due dates will vary
somewhat depending on the project to which you are assigned. These details will be specified in
a separate handout by the end of the third week of class. They will include items like the
completion of a short report summarizing what is already known about the topic, a detailed
description of the data to be used, and a short essay laying out the pros and cons of your chosen
analytical methods. These assignments will collectively account for 20% of your grade.

Preliminary Presentation - 20%. At a time to be determined later, each student team will make
a virtual presentation (via internet videoconferencing) of the early results of their project to the
instructor, teaching assistant, and client organization staff. Each student will be asked to evaluate
the performance of other team members, the instructor will evaluate the overall performance of
the team, and the client agency staff will also make an evaluation. The total grade for the
preliminary presentation will place 30% of the weight on the evaluation issued by client agency
staff, 40% on the evaluation given by the instructor, and 30% on the evaluation students give
each other.

Final Presentation – 20%. There will be a final presentation, worth 35% of the total grade,
which will be given by each student project team to their client agency. The exact timing of this
presentation will be subject to the scheduling constraints of client organization staff, but it is
likely to come during the last two weeks of class, just before the final examination period.

Evaluation of the final presentation will consist of three components. Each student will be asked
to evaluate the performance of other team members, the instructor will evaluate the overall
performance of the team, and the client organization staff will also make an evaluation. The total
grade for the preliminary presentation will place 60% of the weight on the evaluation issued by
client organization staff, 20% on the evaluation given by the instructor, and 20% on the
evaluation students give each other.

Final Report – 15%. Each group will be required to submit a written report to the client
summarizing the conclusions of the project as delivered in the final presentation. This is meant
to provide a written record of the team’s analysis that the client could access in future months or
years. A set of PowerPoint slides may be difficult to decipher two years after a presentation –
this report provides the full analysis depicted in the slides.

Poster / Virtual Poster Session – 5%. Each group is required to create a poster summarizing
the project and present this as part of the end-of-semester systems project poster presentation.

General Class Etiquette
Please come to (or log onto) class on time. Given the amount of material we have to cover, our
time is limited. Your absence from any part of the class shortchanges you and your classmates.

I will plan to start on time and end on time. This requires that all students be on time.

Please do not use class time to check e-mail, trade stocks, play video games, or pursue other
activities that could distract you from our class.

Students are encouraged to show our guest speakers courtesy and respect. The guests who are
sharing their insights via teleconference or videoconference are doing us the enormous favor
of contributing their experience and insight to our class discussions without any direct
compensation from Carnegie Mellon. You are welcome to pose “challenging” questions to our
guest speakers, but you are strongly encouraged to do so in a respectful way, recognizing that
access of future student generations to these outside experts will be, in part, a function of the
quality of their experience in our classroom.

Likewise, students are expected to show one another similar courtesy and respect in classroom
discussions. Students are welcome – indeed, encouraged – to “challenge” one another’s ideas in
class, as well as the positions taken by the instructor. However, students are expected to do so
in a way that maintains an atmosphere of civility and mutual respect.

All sources used for written assignments must be appropriately cited based on standard
citation guidelines and CMU policies. Students are responsible for knowing how to cite
sources appropriately. For official CMU definitions of cheating and plagiarism, and academic
disciplinary procedures that will be followed in the case of a violation, see:
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html. Plagiarism is a
serious offense that can result in the student failing the course. Note that all academic integrity
violations will be reported to the Associate Dean. Additional penalties may be imposed. See
me if you have any questions about appropriate citation before handing in an assignment.

If you have a disability and are registered with the Office of Disability Resources, I encourage
you to use their online system to notify me of your accommodations and discuss your needs
with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability
and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of
Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well,
exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax.

This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings
like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and
Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member
you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
CaPS: 412-268-2922
Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the police
On campus: CMU Police 412-268-2323
Off campus: 911
The following represents a tentative schedule that is subject to change. Any changes will
be announced in class and through the Canvas system.
### Course Outline:

Class Mtg. Topic
Introduction
### Jan. 14 Course Introduction and Overview

Jan. 16 Paradise Lost?: The Postwar Belle Epoque, the Productivity Slowdown,
### and the Great American Income Stagnation

### Technology, Skills, Inequality, and the Future of Work

### Jan. 21 The Race Between Education and Technology

Jan. 23 AI, Machine Learning, Robotics, and Skill-Biased Technical Change
### Jan. 28 Education, Retraining, and Wage Insurance

Jan. 30 21st Century Vocational Education – Lessons from Manchester Bidwell
(Guest Lecture by Kevin Jenkins, CEO of Manchester Bidwell)
### Feb. 4 Immigration and Inequality

Feb. 6 Lessons from SAGA Education (Guest Lecture by Chris DuPuis, Chief
### Operation Officer SAGA Education)

### Immigration, International Trade, and the Future of Work

Feb. 11 Technology, Tutoring, and the Acceleration of Middle School Math
Learning: Lessons from the PLUS Project (Guest Lecture by Danielle
### Thomas, Erin Gatz, Jackie Jordan, and Tasneem Sultana)

Quantitative HW Assignment #1 Due* (All students)
### Feb. 13 Comparative Advantage and the Ricardian Model of Trade

### Feb. 18 Specific Factors and the Politics of Trade

### Feb. 20 Trade and Wages / Trade Policy 1

### Feb. 25 Trade Policy 2

Feb. 27 Trade Policy 3 / “Dutch Disease” International Economics Homework
Assignment Due* (12 unit students only)
### March 3-7 Spring Break No Class

### Market Power, Redistribution, and the Future of Work

### March 11 Monopoly, Monopsony, Unions, and Inequality (1)

### March 13 Monopoly, Monopsony, Unions, and Inequality (2)

March 18 Redistribution Policies for the 21st Century – Lessons from Sweden
March 20 Redistribution Policies for the 21st Century – Taxes and Spending
Must Complete Take-Home Midterm by This Date* (12 unit students
only)
### Race, Gender, Class, and the Future of Work

March 25 Economic methods for Measuring Discrimination
March 27 Discrimination in United States Labor Markets, Theory and Evidence
April 1 Diagnosing Discrimination in Corporate America (Guest Lecture by Chris
### Martin and Allie Hamilton of Syndio)

### April 3 Spring Carnival

### Geography and the Future of Work

April 8 The Geography of Inequality / Policies to Enable Interregional Mobility
Quantitative HW Assignment #2 Due* (12 unit students only)
### April 10 The Geography of Inequality, Part 2

April 15 Guest Lecture: Nick Cotter, Analyst, Allegheny County Department of
### Human Services, Office of Data, Analytics, Research, and Evaluation

### The Gig Economy, COVID, Inflation, and the Future of Work

April 17 The Rise of the Gig Economy? Hype, Fact, and Policy Responses
April 22 COVID, Inflation, and the Future of Work, Policy Essay Due* (All
students)
### April 24 Wrap-Up Class

Final Exam TBA
### Class 1 -- Course Introduction and Overview

January 14
Required Reading
David Autor, “Why Are There Still So Many Jobs? The History and Future of Workplace
Automation,” Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 29, No. 3, pp. 3-30.

Recommended Reading
### Paul Daugherty and James Wilson, “What’s Our Role in the Age of AI,” in Human+Machine:

Reimagining Work in the Age of AI, Harvard University Press, 2018.

Class 2 -- Paradise Lost?: The Postwar Belle Epoque, the Productivity Slowdown, and the
Great Income Stagnation
January 16
Required Reading
Paul Krugman, Chapter 1, “Productivity,” from The Age of Diminished Expectations, 1991.

Lee Branstetter and Dan Sichel, “The Case for an American Productivity Revival,” Policy Brief
17-26, Peterson Institute for International Economics. 2018.
### Class 3 -- The Race Between Education and Technology

January 21
Required Reading
David Autor, “Skills, Education, and the Rise of Earnings Inequality Among the ‘Other 99
percent,” Science, 23 May 2014.

Recommended Reading
Pedro Carneiro and James Heckman, “Human Capital Policy,” NBER WP 9495.
[Note: This is technical and long, but please try to at least skim this paper]
James Heckman, “Assessing Clinton’s Program on Job Training, Workfare, and Education in the
Workplace,” NBER WP 4428.

Optional Reading
David Autor, “The Polarization of Job Opportunities in the U.S. Labor Market: Implications for
Employment and Earnings,” Report, Center for American Progress and the Hamilton Project.

Aaron Chatterji and Benjamin Jones, “Harnessing Technology to Improve K-12 Education,” The
Hamilton Project, Discussion Paper 2012-05
Class 4 – AI, Machine Learning, Robotics, and Skill-Biased Technical Change
January 23
Required Reading
Ajay Agrawal, Avi Goldfarb, and Joshua Gans, “Economic Policy for Artificial Intelligence,” in
Josh Lerner and Scott Stern, (eds.), Innovation Policy and the Economy, Volume 19, pp.
139-160.

Recommended Reading
Jason Furman and Robert Seamans, “AI and the Economy,” in in Josh Lerner and Scott Stern,
(eds.), Innovation Policy and the Economy, Volume 19, pp. 161-191.

Daron Acemoglu and Pascual Restrepo, “Robots and Jobs,” NBER WP # 23285.
### Class 5 – Education, Retraining, and Wage Insurance

January 28
Required Reading
“Not Too Late: Improving Academic Outcomes for Disadvantaged Youth,” IPR Working Paper
15-01 February 2015 (joint with Phillip J. Cook, Kenneth Dodge, George Farkas, Roland G.

Fryer Jr., Jens Ludwig, Susan Mayer, Harold Pollack and Laurence Steinberg)
“Policies to Reduce High-Tenured Displaced Workers’ Earnings Losses Through Retraining,”
Louis Jacobson, Robert LaLonde, and Daniel Sullivan, Hamilton Project Discussion Paper
2011-11.

Robert LaLonde, “The Case for Wage Insurance,” CSR No. 30, 2007, Council on Foreign
Relations.

Please download and complete the quantitative homework assignment on measuring the
economic returns to skill and education by Feb. 13.

Recommended Reading
Karthik Muralidharan, Abhijeet Singh, and Alejandro Ganimian, “Disrupting Education?

Experimental Evidence on Technology-Aided Instruction in India,” NBER WP no. 22923.

Class 6 – 21st Century Vocational Education – Lessons from Manchester Bidwell (Guest
### Lecture by Kevin Jenkins, CEO of Manchester Bidwell)

January 30
Required Reading
Ernst Berndt, The Practice of Econometrics, Chapter 5, “Analyzing Determinants of Wages and
Measuring Wage Discrimination: Dummy Variables in Regression Models,” pp. 150-179.

Required Viewing
Video guide to HW#1 data and running “Mincer” regressions created by Andrew Breazeale.
### Class 7 – Immigration, Labor Market Outcomes, and Inequality

February 4
Required Reading
Roger Loewenstein, “The Immigration Equation,” The New York Times, July 9, 2006
Michael Clemens, “Economics and Emigration: Trillion-Dollar Bills on the Sidewalk?” Journal
of Economic Perspectives, 25 (3), Summer 2011.

Recommended Reading
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/04/david-frum-how-much-immigration-is-to
o-much/583252/?utm_source=atl&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=share
https://www.nytimes.com/2019/01/15/opinion/trump-immigration-myth.html?smid=em-share
Class 8 – Lessons from SAGA Education; Guest Lecture by Chris DuPuis, Chief
Operations Officer
February 6
No Required Reading
### Class 9 – Technology, Tutoring, and the Acceleration of Middle School Math Learning:

Lessons from the PLUS Project (Guest Panel: Dr. Danielle Thomas, Dr. Erin Gatz, Jackie
### Jordan, and Tasneem Sultana)

February 11
No Required Reading
Quantitative HW Assignment #1 due at the beginning of class (all students)
Class 10 – Comparative Advantage and the Ricardian Model: Labor productivity,
technology, and comparative advantage
February 13
Required Reading
“Not so Absolutely Fabulous,” The Economist, 11/4/95.
“Schools Brief. Trade Winds,” The Economist, 11/8/97, pp. 85-86.

Optional Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 2, pp. 13-38.
### Class 11 -- Specific Factors and the Politics of Trade

February 18
Recommended Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 3
Kim Clausing, Open: The Progressive Case for Free Trade, Immigration, and Open Capital
Markets, Chapter 4, “Winners and Losers from International Trade”
Class 12 – Trade and Wages / Trade Policy Analysis Part 1
February 20
Required Reading
“Sweet Deal, why are these men smiling? The reason is your sugar bowl,” Time, Nov. 23, 1998
Optional Reading
Autor, David, David Dorn, and Gordon Hanson, “The China Syndrome” American Economic
Review, 2013.
“United States Trade Law” HBS Case 9-387-137
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 6
### Class 13 – Trade Policy Analysis Part 2

February 25
Required Reading
Krugman and Obstfeld, International Economics: Theory and Policy, Chapter 8, pp. 187-218.
### W. Max Corden, Trade Policy, Chapter 8

Class 14 – Trade Policy Analysis Part 3 / Dutch Disease
February 27
Required Reading
Chad Bown, “There Is Little Dignity in Trump’s Trade Policy: Workers Were Never at the Heart
of the President’s Plan,” Foreign Affairs, July 2020
Optional Reading
Amiti, Redding, and Weinstein, “The Impact of the 2018 Trade War on U.S. Prices and
Welfare,” NBER WP 25672
Flagen, Hortascu, and Tintelnot, “The Production Relocation and Price Effects of U.S. Trade
Policy: The Case of Washing Machines,” NBER WP no. 25767
Fajgelbaum, Goldberg, Kennedy, and Khandelwal, “The Return to Protectionism,” NBER
Working Paper No. 25638
International Economics Homework Assignment Due (12 unit students only)
### March 4-8 Spring Break – No Class

### Class 15 – Monopoly, Monopsony, Unions, and Inequality, Part 1

March 11
Required Reading
S. Kaplan and J. Rauh, “It’s the Market: The Broad-Based Rise in the Return to Top Talent,”
Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 35-56.

Carl Shapiro, “Antitrust Policy in a Time of Populism,” 2017.

Recommended Reading
F. Alvaredo, A. Atkinson, T. Piketty, and E. Saez, “The Top 1 Percent in International and
Historical Perspective,” Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 27, No. 1, pp. 3-20.

Alan Krueger and Eric Posner, “A Proposal for Protecting Low-Income Workers from
Monopsony and Collusion,” The Hamilton Project, Policy Proposal 2018-05.
### Class 16 – Monopoly, Monopsony, Unions, and Inequality, Part 2

March 13
Required Reading
Hilary Hoynes, Jesse Rothstein, and Krista Ruffini, “Making Work Pay Better Through an
Expanded Earned Income Tax Credit,” The Hamilton Project, Policy Proposal 2017-09.

Class 17– Redistribution Policies for the 21st Century – Lessons from Scandinavia
March 18
Required Reading
Assar Lindbeck, “The Swedish Experiment,” Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 35, No. 3.
(Sep., 1997), pp. 1273-1319.

Class 18– Redistribution Policies for the 21st Century – Taxes and Spending
March 20
Students Must Complete the Take-Home Midterm by 11:59 PM on Friday, March 24 (12 unit
students only)
Required Reading
Congressional Budget Office, The 2021 Long-Term Budget Outlook
Recommended Reading
Congressional Budget Office, The 2022 Long-Term Budget Outlook
Samuel Brown and William Gale, “Tax Reform for Growth, Equity, and Revenue,” Urban
Institute – Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center, November 2012.

William Gale and Ben Harris, “Proposal 10: Creating an American Value-Added Tax,” The
Hamilton Project: Fifteen Ways to Rethink the Federal Budget, February 2013.

Rosanne Altshuler, Katherine Lam, and Roberton Williams, “Desperately Seeking Revenue,”
Urban Institute – Brookings Institute Tax Policy Center, January 2010.

Congressional Budget Office, Effects of a Carbon Tax on the Economy and the Environment,
May 2013.
https://calculator.americaoffbalance.org/-O4HK9_EYtwFSqWJoED6/edit/spending
### Class 19 – Economic Methods for Measuring Discrimination

March 25
Required Reading
Ernst Berndt, (1990), The Practice of Econometrics: Classic and Contemporary, Chapter 5
“Analyzing Determinants of Wages and Measuring Wage Discrimination,” pp. 176-192.

Joseph Altonji and Rebecca Blank, (1999), “Race and Gender in the Labor Market,” Chapter 48,
Handbook of Labor Economics.

Class 20 – Discrimination in the U.S. Labor Market, Theory and Evidence
March 28
Required Reading
Patrick Bayer and Kerwin Kofi Charles, (2018), “Divergent Paths: A New Perspective on
Earnings Differences between Black and White Men Since 1940,” Quarterly Journal of
Economics 133(3), pp 1459-1501
Recommended Reading
Marianne Bertrand and Sendhil Mullainathan, (2004), “Are Emily and Greg More Employable
than Lakisha and Jamal? A Field Experiment on Labor Market Discrimination,” The American
Economic Review, Vol. 94, No. 4, pp. 991- 1013
Ellora Derenoncourt, “Can you move to opportunity? Evidence from the Great Migration,”
### Working Paper, Harvard University and UC-Berkeley

Trevon Logan and John Parman, “The National Rise in Residential Segregation,” Journal of
Economic History 77 (1): 127-170
### Class 21 – Gender and the U.S. Labor Market

March 27
Required Viewing
Journey Across a Century of Women: the 2020 Martin Feldstein Lecture, NBER Summer
Institute.

Faculty Presentation from Authors of “The No Club”
Please download the homework assignment that will use Blinder-Oaxaca decompositions to
quantify the impact of discrimination on wage outcomes. You will need to complete this
assignment by April 11.

Recquired Reading
Goldin C. "How to Achieve Gender Equality". Milken Institute Review. 2015; July (Q3) :24-33.

Recommended Reading
Francine D. Blau and Lawrence M. Kahn, (2017), “The Gender Wage Gap: Extent, Trends, and
Explanations,” Journal of Economic Literature 55(3), 789–865.

Babcock et al, (2017), “Gender Differences in Accepting and Receiving Requests for Tasks with
Low Promotability,” American Economic Review, 107 (3), pp. 714-707.

Optional Reading
J. A. Bohren, A. Imas, and M. Rosenberg, “The Dynamics of Discrimination: Theory and
Evidence,” American Economic Review.

Class 22 Guest Lecture by Chris Martin and Allie Hamilton (Syndio)
April 1
Required Reading
Chamberlain (2017), “How to Analyze Your Gender Pay Gap (Glassdoor Report)”
### April 3 – Spring Carnival, No Class

### Class 23– The Geography of Inequality

April 8
Quantitative HW Assignment #2 Due (12 unit students only)
Required Reading
Mark Muro and Sifan Liu, “Another Clinton-Trump Divide: High-Output American vs.
### Low-Output America,” Brookings Institution Blog Post

Jens Ludwig and Stephen Raphael, “The Mobility Bank: Increasing Residential Mobility to
Boost Economic Mobility,” The Hamilton Project, Discussion Paper, October 2010
Recommended Reading
Raj Chetty and Nathaniel Hendren, “The Impact of Neighborhoods on Intergenerational Mobility
II: County-Level Estimates,” December 2017.
[Note: This is technical and quite long, but please try to at least skim this paper]
### Matthew Desmond and Tracey Shollenberg, “Forced Displacement From Rental Housing:

Prevalence and Neighborhood Consequences,” Demography, (2015) 52:1751–1772
White House, Strengthening Rural Communities: Lessons from a Growing Farm Economy,
Council of Economic Advisers, June 2012.
### Class 24 – Geography of Opportunity, Part 2

April 10
Recquired Reading
Ed Glaeser, “Urbanization and its Discontents,” NBER Working Paper 26839
Recommended Reading
Benjamin Austin, Ed Glaeser, and Lawrence Summer, “Jobs for the Heartland: Place-based
Policies in 21st Century America,” NBER Working Paper 24548
Optional Reading
Ed Glaeser and Naomi Hausman, “The Spatial Mismatch Between Innovation and Joblessness,”
NBER Working Paper no. 25913
Anne Case and Angus Deaton, “Mobility and Morbidity in the 21st Century,” Brookings Papers
on Economic Activity, 2017.

Class 25 – Guest Lecture: Nick Cotter, Analyst, Allegheny County Department of Human
### Services, Office of Data, Analytics, Research, and Evaluation

April 15
Required Reading
Ta-Nahisi Coates, “The Case for Reparations,” Atlantic Monthly, June 2014
Patrick Sharkey, “The acute effect of local homicides on children's cognitive performance,”
PNAS June 29, 2010, 107 (26) 11733-1173
Class 26 – The Rise of the Gig Economy? Hype, Fact, and Policy Responses
April 17
Required Reading
### Seth Harris and Alan Krueger, “A Proposal for Modernizing Labor Laws for 21st Century Work:

The “Independent Worker,” Hamilton Project Discussion Paper 2015-10.

Recommended Reading
Lawrence Katz and Alan Krueger, “Understanding Trends in Alternative Work Arrangements in
the United States,” NBER Working Paper no. 25425, January 2019.

Katharine Abraham, John Haltiwanger, Kristin Sandusky, and James Spletzer, “The Rise of the
Gig Economy: Fact or Fiction,” NBER Conference Paper, July 2018.

Class 27 – COVID, Inflation, Supply Chains, and the Future of Work
April 22
Required Reading
Jason Furman, “The Crisis Opportunity: What It Will Take to Build Back Better,” Foreign
Affairs
Jason Furman, (April 2022), “This Inflation Is Demand-Driven and Persistent - Project
Syndicate.pdf”
Recommended Reading
Barro et al., “The Coronavirus and the Great Influenza Pandemic: Lessons from the “Spanish
Flu,” NBER WP 26866.

Policy Essay Due (All Students)
### Class 28 – Wrap-Up Class

April 24
Final Exam TBD
19