# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, CMU, Python, Pandas, 10%, campus, English, Students, 15%
**Document Length**: 1442 words

---

# Course Title: 95888 Data Focused Python, Section C3
Instructor: Marty Barrett (martinba@andrew.cmu.edu), 3040 Hamburg Hall
Course
Office Hours: Tuesday 11-12:20; Thursday 2-3:20, or by appointment
Information*
### TAs:

Serena Xue (qingxue@andrew.cmu.edu)
Vinayak Prasad (vkprasad@andrew.cmu.edu)
Prerequisites Some prior computer programming training or experience
This seven-week course focuses on the fundamentals of computer programming
using the Python 3 interpreted programming language. Students will develop
their problem-solving skills using the top-down procedural decomposition
approach to build real-world based software applications. Students will also
Description learn the to use several common Python libraries for data analysis and plotting.

Assignments will include weekly homework and fundamental checkpoint
quizzes, top-down approach programming projects within a group data focused
project. Learners will study how to build professional, user-friendly computer
programs applicable to real-world applications in an IT-modeled environment.
### Primary Textbook:

Python for Data Analysis: Data Wrangling with Pandas, NumPy, and IPython, 3nd
Edition, Wes McKinney ISBN-13: 978-1098104030, ISBN-10: 109810403X
Available on the author’s website: https://wesmckinney.com/book/
Course
### Optional Books:

Materials
Automate the Boring Stuff with Python: Practical Programming for Total
Beginners, Sweigart, Al, ISBN-13: 978-1593275990, ISBN-10: 1593275994
Starting Out with Python (4th Edition) 4th Edition, Tony Gaddis ISBN-13: 9780134444321, ISBN-10: 0134444329
### The final grade will be out of 100%. The grading breakdown is listed below:

### *  Weekly Homework 20%

Evaluation
### *  Weekly Quizzes 15%

Method
### *  Lab Assignments 15%

### *  Group Project 40%

### *  Final exam 10%

Use the Python IDLE integrated development environment in interactive and
Learning/Course script mode to both test code snippets and author professional programs.

Objectives
Learn command line usage for executing Python source code.

Develop problem-solving skills through practice and understanding of the topdown approach.

Form and manipulate collections of data: list, tuple, set, dict, NumPy ndarray,
and Pandas Series and DataFrame.

Clean data and create plots using matplotlib and other graphing libraries.

Produce modules of function definitions for code reuse.

Create object-based algorithms to solve real-world problems using the Python
language.

97.5 - 100 A+
92.5 - 97.4 A
90.0 - 92.4 A87.5 - 89.9 B+
82.5 - 87.4 B
Grading Scale*
80.0 - 82.4 B77.5 - 79.9 C+
72.5 - 77.4 C
70.0 - 72.4 C00.0 - 69.9 R
### · Week 1 – Python Fundamentals, Collections, Loops

· Week 2 – Functions, Files, numpy
### · Week 3 – Introduction to Pandas

### · Week 4 – Data Cleaning, Web Scraping, API’s

### Course/Topical · Week 5 – Plotting

### Outline:* · Week 6 – Regex, Database

### · Week 7 – Object-Oriented Python, Group Project Presentations

. Final exam
### * Subject to change

Lectures, labs, and quizzes will be administered in-class. Labs are due within
two days, with no exceptions granted. If you are traveling or otherwise cannot
Schedule make a class, you must schedule a time before the beginning of class to
complete the quiz/assignment. The final exam will be during the final exam
period as scheduled by Heinz academics.

### Assignment Submission:

Everything must be submitted in Canvas by the due date/time.

If you experience upload problems with Canvas, email me your work for grading
IMMEDIATELY, AND PRIOR TO, THE DUE DATE/TIME, along with a screenshot
of the upload error. When emailing me your work, I also need you to email technical
information to validate the issue (type out what the error message is that you are
receiving, computer information, network information, file information, date/time of
attempted upload, and screenshot of error) prior to the due date/time via email to me or
you will receive a 0% on the corresponding assignment. I need the error information so
I can validate your excuse with Canvas administration – it must be validated by error
logging. If you contact me about Canvas submission issues after the due/date time, I
cannot help you. IMPORTANT: this only applies to technical problems, NOT to
personal issues or just missing a deadline.
### Late Policy:

Unless otherwise stated, no assignments will be accepted late. On the rare occasion that
an assignment is announced that it can be submitted late, the assignment will be
accepted with a penalty of 10% of the total worth of the assignment per day late, up to
and including the late deadline announced. Do *not* ask me to make special exceptions
for you and you alone – that is NOT fair to the rest of the class. NO assignments may
ever be delivered by email (except as noted above). Please do not ask to have a Canvas
assignment re-opened online for late submission. Budget for upload time to Canvas. All
Course Policies assignments are due by the start time of the class which it is due (unless otherwise
& Expectations noted).
### Students with Disabilities:

Our community values diversity and seeks to promote meaningful access to educational
opportunities for all students. CMU and your instructors are committed to your success
and to supporting Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended and the
Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). This means that in general no individual who is
otherwise qualified shall be excluded from participation in, be denied benefits of, or be
subjected to discrimination under any program or activity, solely by reason of having a
disability.

If you believe that you need accommodations for a disability, please contact us ASAP,
and we will work together to ensure that you have the correct access to resources on
campus to assist you through your coursework and time at CMU.
### Academic Integrity:

Carnegie Mellon University sets high standards for academic integrity. Those standards
are supported and enforced by students, including those who serve as academic integrity
hearing panel members and hearing officers. The presumptive sanction for a first
offense is no credit on the assignment in question and lowering the final grade by one
letter, accompanied by the transcript notation “Violation of the Academic Integrity
Policy.” The standard sanction for a second offense is failing the course. Please see
http://www.cmu.edu/academic-integrity/ for any questions.

All incidents are reported to the Office of Community Standards & Integrity at
CMU. Additional penalties may be imposed.
### Cell Phones, Smartphones and other handheld wireless devices:

Other than during class breaks, please silence ring tones and refrain from engaging in
calls, messaging or other use during class time. All devices must not be visible during
quizzes.
### Policy Regarding Students Using English as a Foreign Language:

Assignments in this course are graded with reference to evidence of the acquisition of
concepts, presentation format, and accuracy of information. Having done business in
countries that use languages other than English, we understand that the use of an
unfamiliar language can result in unusual word choices or grammatical errors that are
not critical to the overall understanding of the information. Therefore, we will take into
account your need to function in a language that may be unfamiliar to you. We will
provide feedback as appropriate if we feel that language or grammar you have used in
assignments would be best if it were configured in a different way.
### Use of Canvas System for this course:

The Heinz School uses Carnegie Mellon University’s Canvas system to facilitate
distance learning as well as to enhance main campus courses. In this course, we will use
the Canvas system generally to post lecture notes and related documents and to receive
assignments electronically from students.
### Take care of yourself:

Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising,
avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This
will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is
often helpful. If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult
life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek
support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-2682922 and visit their website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out
to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support
that can help.

If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone
immediately, day or night:
### *  CaPS: 412-268-2922

### *  Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226

### *  If the situation is life threatening, call the police:

o On campus: CMU Police: 412-268-2323
o Off campus: 911
If you have questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.