# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Students, the semester, 72%, 81%, case studies, students, 90%, cloud computing, the course
**Document Length**: 2513 words

---

# Telecommunications Management
Summer 2025
Course Course Number: 95705
Information* Section: Z
### Course Title: Telecommunications Management

Units: 12.0
### Instructor: Dr. Sakir Yucel

Email: syucel@andrew.cmu.edu
Office Hours: TBA and by appointment
Teaching Assistant: TBA
Email: TBA
Office Hours: TBA
Prerequisites (if Prerequisite is an introductory course on Information Systems or equivalent industry experience.
applicable)
Description* The purpose of this course is to provide an understanding of the key technical, managerial and policy
issues in the effective development and use of telecommunication solutions by organizations.
## Discussion of technology and technology trends will be set in the context of applications. Topics

covered will include basic concepts of telecommunication technologies, Internet and intranet
technologies, issues related to the operational and strategic use of the technology, digital disruption and
digital transformation happening in the markets, economics and policy aspects of telecommunication,
the changing structure of the telecommunications industry, software defined networks, virtualization,
cloud computing, content delivery networks, wireless, broadband, broadband policies, network
neutrality, various applications of telecom. A number of case studies will be included in the curriculum
providing students the opportunity to apply the concepts to real world situations.

Course Overview We live in a very dynamic and interconnected world, which is largely driven by advances in
telecommunication technology. This course is aimed at equipping students with technical, business and
policy related tools to comprehend changes in telecommunication technologies and their effect on
markets, consumers, corporations and society. In accordance with this goal, the course covers the
managerial, policy and technical issues surrounding telecommunication and information technologies.

We will cover the fundamentals of data transmission and networking, Internet, various networking
technologies, interworking and peering, which are all crucial to understand the telecommunications
from a technical perspective. We will review the history of telecommunication policy and look into
today’s challenging policy issues such as network neutrality. We will cover recent approaches to data
networking such as software defined networking and network function virtualization. We will cover
various relevant topics including CDNs, cloud computing, virtualization, Internet of Things, wireless,
broadband, policy issues around wireless and broadband. We will study the fundamental microeconomic concepts at high level and discuss how they are applicable to the telecommunications
industry. We will talk about the characteristics of digital economy, digital disruption and digital
transformation. We will try to understand the basic concepts about disruptive technologies, innovation
and technology adoption, and learn about methodologies to evaluate them. Covid has influenced the
technology and particularly telecom technologies and how we approach them. We will include
discussions around pandemic and crisis in general, and cover digital disruption and digital

transformations during crisis. The frameworks we develop while covering these topics will be used to
analyze real world examples in the form of case studies. With case studies, we will look at the different
players in the complex ecosystems and how they compete and cooperate to attract consumers and
dominate the marketplace. Case studies will cover the recent developments in telecommunication
technologies and the disruptive impact they are having not just on telecom providers but also on diverse
industries such as music, video, television, business operations, artificial intelligence adoption,
commerce, social networks.
### Course Materials Lecture Videos

(if applicable) Links to lecture videos will be available for streaming and download in the Canvas page.

Textbooks
Recommended Textbook: Business Data Communications by William Stallings and Thomas Case, 7th
ed. This book provides a broad overview of some technologies discussed in the lectures. Check the
textbook website http://williamstallings.com/BusinessDataComm/ regularly during the semester. The
site provides access to telecom resources related to each chapter in the book.

Note that no single textbook covers the course material in the detail and depth required for this class
and therefore additional references will be made available during the semester.
### Following books are good references:

### *  For a coverage of the broadband telecom field from technological, business and policy angles,

“Broadband Telecommunications Technologies and Management”, 1st Edition by Riaz
Esmailzadeh is recommended.
*  For an in-depth coverage of data networks, Kurose & Ross "Computer Networking: A TopDown Approach" 8th ed is an excellent reference.
*  For microeconomics, the following book is an excellent reference: Microeconomics: Hal R.

Varian, Intermediate Microeconomics: A Modern Approach (Ninth Edition or later), W. W.

Norton & Company. Note that microeconomics concepts will be covered at high level without
getting into mathematical modeling. This book is a good reference for those who want to dwell
into microeconomics topics.

Case Studies
The case studies to be covered in the course are available for your purchase as a course pack at the
Harvard Business Publishing page at discounted student rate. You need to register and login on the site
to access the case studies. The list of case studies will be available at the beginning of the semester.

Grading Policies
Evaluation*
## Method Your grade is based on performance in assignments, case work, a term paper, a final exam and your

contribution to discussion forums. These components are weighted as follows:
### *  Final Exam: 25%

### *  Term paper: 30%

### *  Assignments: 25%

### *  Case Work: 15%

### *  Discussion Forums Contribution: 5%

### The breakdown for the term paper grade:

### *  Proposal: 5%

### *  Progress report: 5%

### *  Final Report: 20%

The breakdown for the assignments: each assignment is equal weight unless specified otherwise.
### The breakdown for the case work:

*  10% for group performance
*  5% for individual performance
### Final letter grades will be assigned as follows:

### *  A range (A-, A, A+) - Your total weighted average: >=90%

### *  B range (B-, B, B+) - Your total weighted average: 81% - <90%

### *  C range (C-, C, C+) - Your total weighted average: 72% - <81%

### *  D (Failing) - Your total weighted average: <72%

The distribution within a given letter grade range will be curved i.e. based on relative class
performance.

Exam
There will be an open-notes final exam. It will be limited in duration (e.g. 2 hours). The final exam will
be held over a time period of 3 days. Students must choose a time window for the duration of the exam
during this period and complete the exam in one attempt. More information about the exam will be
provided later in the semester.

Term Paper
### Students are required to deliver a term paper in the following phases:

### *  The proposal which describes the focus and objectives, the methodology of research, the value

proposition of the research and the initial list of references.
*  The progress report which provides updates on progress in relation to the proposal.
*  The final report.

See "General Information About Term Paper and Assignments" page for more information about the
term paper.

Assignments
The assignments are designed to give students the opportunity to research relevant material in lecture
notes and online resources to produce high quality answers. There will be 4 assignments. An optional
assignment may be offered providing opportunity to override a low score of a regular assignment.

These assignments are to be done individually. You are free to use online resources for reference, but
you need to provide citation for anything you use apart from the lecture notes. See "General
Information About Term Paper and Assignments" link under "Assignments" menu for more
information.

Grading criteria for each homework assignment will be provided together with the assignment.

Case Work
Case studies are meant to elicit critical thinking on your part and apply the concepts we learn in class to
real world situations. Students will enter their preferences on the case studies in a survey. Based on the
student preferences, teams will be formed to prepare a presentation about a case. Each team will be
given the opportunity to present the case to the rest of the class. Attendance to the case presentations is
not required but highly recommended. Grades on the case work will depend upon the state of
preparedness, quality of slides, setting up the context of the case, coverage of technical material (if
any), coverage of relevant economic/business concepts, summarization of important takeaways from
the case. Individual grades may vary within a team due to each members respective performance.

Details will be available later during the semester.
## Discussion Forums

## Discussion forums provide a great opportunity to have virtual asynchronous conversations related to the

lecture content.

There is one forum specifically created for the discussion of the course material, homework
assignments and lectures. That forum is "Forum to Discuss Course Material". You may post your
questions about the course there. The TAs and I will be looking at the posted messages regularly and
provide feedback. Students are encouraged to provide answers to the questions on this discussion board.

This board allows posting anonymous messages. Personal questions, on the other hand, should be
directly addressed to the instructor and/or to the TA, rather than being posted on the discussion boards.

The forum named "Forum to Discuss Telecom Topics" allows you to discuss various aspects of telecom
(e.g. business, social, policy, technology). By using this forum, you will have chance to engage in

topics that interest you and discuss about them with your classmates. Also, you are encouraged to reply
to the postings of other students expressing your viewpoint.

The forum named "Forum to Discuss Term Paper Topics" allows you to share your research on your
term paper topic with classmates and receive feedback from each other.

Since this is an online class, we may not have opportunity to meet each other physically but we can still
get to know one another. For this purpose, I created a forum where I would ask each of you to post a
hello message to your classmates and introduce yourself. It is named "Introducing Yourself".

Participating into this forum is optional.

You will earn 0.5% for each posting to any of these forums up to 5% total. Only postings time stamped
before the due date will contribute toward your discussion forums grade.

None of the forums is moderated at this time. I expect you to observe polite conduct in your postings
and to act responsively. I keep the right to remove any posting and moderate the forums if I feel
necessary (although I never exercised it in my previous classes).

Learning/Course This course is designed to teach the most fundamental technical principles of telecom, telecom market
Objectives* dynamics, telecom policy, and to discuss how all these interact with management and business practice.

Students will study a number of case studies that will cover these principles in the context of real-world
situations that have been challenging the practitioners in the main telecom and information companies
around the world. Students are expected to learn about the dynamic structure of the industry and the
roles of factors such as economies of scale, disruptive technologies, network externalities and
regulation. The course relies heavily on learning-by-doing by offering frameworks that students can use
to anticipate the opportunities and challenges that new information and communication technologies
can bring.

Final letter grades will be assigned as follows.

Grading Scale* A range (A-, A, A+) - Your total weighted average: >=90%
B range (B-, B, B+) - Your total weighted average: 81% - <90%
C range (C-, C, C+) - Your total weighted average: 72% - <81%
D (Failing) - Your total weighted average: <72%
The distribution within a given letter grade range will be curved i.e. based on relative class
performance.

Grading Grading criteria for each homework assignment will be provided together with the assignment.

Rubric/explanation
of grades (optional
but encouraged)
Live Meetings There will be two types of live meetings as outlined below. These live meetings will be recorded and
recordings will be made available to students. Attendance to these meetings is not mandatory.
## 1. Students will be grouped into teams to deliver case presentation on their assigned case study.

Teams will be allowed to choose the presentation time based on their availability. Only the
presenting students will have to attend these sessions.
## 2. Weekly review sessions. These sessions will be used to go over the course material. Students

are encouraged to attend these sessions and ask questions on course material, but attendance
will not be required.

Course/Topical Schedule of lectures and due dates for deliverables will be available at the beginning of the semester.

Outline:*
Plagiarism and
cheating notice* Academic Dishonesty, Cheating and Plagiarism
Everyone is expected to abide by the plagiarism policy of the university. Particularly pay attention to
the following:
*  Using someone else's work without proper citation is considered plagiarism.
*  Cutting and pasting without proper quotation marks and without citation is considered plagiarism.
*  Copying someone else's homework is considered plagiarism.

*  Copying answers from previous years' answer sheets is considered plagiarism.

Any violation of this policy will result in an automatic "F" grade and a report to the academic action
committee. Please review CMU's policy here:
https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-and-student-life/academic-integrity.html
For any doubt, contact me or the program director Allison Frankoski.

Course Policies &
Expectations * Expectations from Students
A high level of individual student motivation and initiative will be expected. Students will be expected
to use online resources extensively on telecommunications technology, policy and management. Selfguided research and an entrepreneurial attitude are important components of the course.
### Things to Do Right Away

### *  Purchase copies of the case studies via the course pack link in "Textbooks and Other Resources"

section.
*  Familiarize yourself with the various features of the Canvas course website. In particular
familiarize yourself with how to post/edit messages on the class discussion board.
*  Start thinking about your term paper topic and feel free to discuss any initial ideas with me.

Take Care of Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and
Yourself alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and
cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are many helpful
resources available on campus and an important part of the college experience is learning how to ask
for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like
anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support. Counseling and Psychological
Services (CaPS) is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their website at
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust
for help getting connected to the support that can help.

Accommodations If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, I
for Students with encourage you to discuss your accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible.

Disabilities I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you
may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but are not yet registered with the
Office of Disability Resources, I encourage you to contact them at access@andrew.cmu.edu.