# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, class, March, BOX, music, Saturday, 10:00am, 12:00pm, February, one
**Document Length**: 1738 words

---

### Master of Entertainment Industry Management

### Course FILM MUSIC SUPERVISION

Information Course Number 93.872 Section L2 Spring 2025
Instructor: Bonnie Greenberg bonnie.greenberg@mac.com
Class 1 – Friday, February 14, 2:30pm - 5:30pm
Class 2 – Saturday, February 15, 2:30pm - 5:30pm
Class 3 – Saturday, March 15, 10:00am – 1:00pm
Class 4 – Saturday, March 22, 10:00am – 1:00pm
Description The course defines the role of the music supervisor, who draws on combined resources of the film and
music communities to marry music and moving images. The course is intended to lead students to a
better understanding and appreciation of the use of music in the filmmaking process. Lectures,
assignments, presentations and discussions with guest speakers present the principles and procedures of
music supervision.

Learning/Course The objectives of this class are to convey a broad understanding of the role of the music supervisor and
Objectives* how one navigates the creative process effectively. By the end of the course, students should be able
to:
### Learning Objective How Assessed

Investigate the power of music as it relates to the Class discussion
moving image and storytelling. Project 1 and 3
Recognize when a particular piece or style of music Class discussion and project 1
enhances the emotional resonance of a scene and the and 3
subjectivity of same.

Identify the contrasting (often argumentative) agendas Class discussion
and needs of the different personnel in involved with
the filmmaking and music process, ie. Director,
### Producer, Film Company, Record Company, Editor,

etc.

Understand how to establish the artistic vision and Class discussion
figure out how music can help tell the best story Project
possible.

Navigate the politics of making a film and its Class discussion
relationship to the music, ie. Time, budget and Project 2
resource constraints
Gain understanding of the life line of a music Class discussion
supervisor (from hire to preproduction to production to
post production)

Absences/Tardy: Attendance is mandatory and will be reflected in the class participation portion of your grade. If you
know you are going to be late or absent, please contact me prior to class via email (above) and copy
Mary and Dan. Each unexcused absence, unexcused lateness or unexcused early exit from class will
result in a one-third step down in grade (e.g., A- to B+).

Required Reading: “Score: A Film Music Documentary”, “The Interviews”, by Matt Schrader, Epicleff Media, 2017
“The Music Cue Sheet – Usage Categories” by: Carl Sealove – June 2003, updated May 2020)
Suggested Reading: Bernard Herrmann: Film Music and Narrative by Graham D. Bruce, UMI Research Press, 1988
Knowing The Score: Film Composers Talk About the Art, Craft, Blood, Sweat, and Tears of Writing
for Cinema by David Morgan, Harper Entertainment, 2000
### *  Guild of Music Supervisors Youtube Channel (lots of free panels and resources for music

supervisors)
### *  Thinking In Sync: A Primer on the Mind of a Music Supervisor by music supervisor Amanda

Krieg Thomas
### *  Documentary: The Hollywood Soundtrack Story

### *  Documentary: Score: A Film Music Documentary

*  All You Need to Know About the Music Business: Tenth Edition by Donald S. Passman -
Simon and Schuster, 2019 (if you have 9th edition, that is fine)
Evaluation*
## Method Due Date Percentage

Class Participation 20%
Assign 1(a) and (b)Favorite 1(a)Saturday February 15 10%
scene; changing music in a 1(b) Wednesday, March 12, 12noon 1 0 %
scene
Assign 2: Budget/ Script Wednesday March 12, 12:00pm 25%
Breakdown
### Assign 3: Final: Scoring and 35%

Spotting Notes Final due Friday March 21, 12::00pm
### Class Participation Grading for Class Participation

Rubric As participation is a major factor in the grading of this class, I’m including a rubric for how I will be
grading. Again, if you read the assigned articles and contribute in class you should be fine.
### A Grade B Grade C Grade D/R Grade

Frequency Attends class regularly Attends class Attends class Attends class
and and always contributes to regularly and regularly but regularly but
Quality the discussion by raising sometimes rarely never
thoughtful questions, contributes to the contributes to the contributes to
analyzing relevant issues, discussion in the discussion in the the discussion
building on others’ ideas, aforementioned aforementioned in the
synthesizing across ways. ways. aforementioned
readings and discussions, ways.
expanding the class’
perspective, and
appropriately challenging
assumptions and
perspectives
Grading Scale* A+ 99.0-100% Exceptional
A 94.0-98.9% Excellent
A- 91.0-93.9% Very Good
B+ 88.0-90.9% Good
B 84.0-87.9% Acceptable
B- 81.0-83.9% Fair
C+ 78.0-80.9% Poor
C 74.0-77.9% Very Poor
C- 71.0-73.9% Minimum Passing
R below 71 pts (< 71%) Failing
Course/Topical Class 1 – Friday, February 14, 2:30pm - 5:30pm
Outline
### Topic Overview of Music Supervision

-Definition
-Introductions
-Review of Syllabus
-Historical Perspective
-Thematic Content
-Music and Storytelling
-Song versus score
Required “Score” A Film Music Documentary, “The Interview” Chapters 2 -8
Readings
Deliverable Assignment 1(a) Bring in favorite scene with music for Class 2, February
## 15. Be prepared to discuss why you chose this particular scene.

12:00pm.

Class 2 – Saturday, February 15, 2:30pm - 5:30pm
### Topic Budgeting and Breaking Down A Script:

-Review and discuss scene selection
-Budgeting
-Breaking Down a Script
-Song references/on camera references
-Process of Discussing breakdown
-Decision making team on feature film; various perspectives
Required
Readings 1. Score “A Film Music Documentary, The Interviews Chapters 17,19,25
## 2. Temp Music Article in BOX

Deliverable Assignment 1(b) (Choose another scene with music and change the music to
2 different versions whatever you would like. If you prefer, you can choose
replacement music for one choice and have ChatGPT choose your second
choice. You would then also dicuss the differences. Submit to BOX by
March 12, 12:00pm. Be prepared to present your Assignment 1(b) in class
#3, on March 15. You will only present one version of the 2 in class.

Assignemnt 2: Breakldown music in script for budgeting purposes. To be
explained in class. . Submit to BOX by March 12, 12:00pm. Be prepared to
review Assignment 2 in class #3, on March 15.

Assignment 2 is also due March 12 12:00 ppm PST
Films to be posted for Final Assign 3 Final Due March 21 12:00pm PST
Put music to 25 minutes of film using whatever your personal choice of
music is, with accompanying spotting notes. Film to be delivered digitally
on BOX.

In class 4 March 22, you will be required to show your favorite scene of
your final assignment up to a maximum of 5 minutes. We will discuss in
class the details of this.*****
Class 3 – Saturday, March 15, 10:00am – 1:00pm
Topic Determining/Experimenting with Musical Directiton -
Creating first “temp” track
-Testing/Exploring styles, tones and placement of music
-Budget considerations
-Demographics
-Spotting Notes
-Composer/score
-Songs/source, recording original songs
-Music Editor
Review budgeting script assigmnet and music alternatives for scenes.

Required Read “The Music Cue Sheet – Usage Categories”
Readings By: Carl Sealove – June 2003, updated May 2020)
Deliverable **Reminder Assign 3 Final: Due March 22 12:00 pm PST
Put music to 25 minutes of film using whatever your personal choice of music
is, with accompanying spotting notes. Film to be delivered digitally on BOX.

One small part of final is due on November 17. We will discuss in class.

Class 4 – Saturday, March 22, 10:00am – 1:00pm
Topic Delivery
-Delivery of Elements
-Recording Sessions
-Cue Sheets
-Final Mix of sound elements, (Music and Film)
-Credits
-Remaining Questions from class
-Reviewing/Discusssions Final Film favorite scenes
Deliverable
Plagiarism and Plagiarism and other forms of academic misrepresentation are viewed as extremely serious matters.

Cheating Notice* Misrepresentation of another’s work as one’s own is widely recognized as among the most serious
violations. The violation is clearly flagrant when it occurs as plagiarism on a required paper or as
cheating on an examination, including take-home as well as in-class examinations. The punishment for
such offenses can involve expulsion from the MEIM Program and Heinz School.
### Cheating includes but is not limited to:

## 1. Plagiarism (explained below);

## 2. Submission of work that is not the student’s own;

## 3. Submission or use of falsified data;

## 4. Unauthorized access to an exam or assignment;

## 5. Use of a stand‐in for an exam;

## 6. Use of unauthorized material in the preparation of an assignment or during an examination;

## 7. Supplying or communicating unauthorized information to another student for use in an assignment

or exam;
## 8. Unauthorized collaboration on an assignment. Collaboration must be explicitly permitted by an

instructor for it to be considered authorized.
## 9. Submission of the same work for credit in more than one course.

Plagiarism is the failure to indicate the source of work either with quotation marks or
footnotes. The source can be a phrase, a graphic element, a proof, specific language, or an idea derived
from the work of another person. Note that material on the web is another person’s work and is
therefore equally subject to the rules on plagiarism and cheating as any other source material.

Cheating and/or plagiarism on an essay assignment will result in a failing grade (0 points) for
that assignment. The essay in which the cheating occurs will not be excluded from the offending
student’s assignments included in grade calculations; the points for that essay zero (0) will be factored
into the grade.

Furthermore, the cheating student’s final grade will be reduced one full letter grade. A cheating
student’s final grade will be impacted significantly. In addition, cases of cheating and plagiarism will
be submitted to and reviewed by the Dean’s Office; more severe penalties may be imposed, up to and
including expulsion from the Heinz School.

Academic Dishonesty: Students are expected to maintain the highest ethical standards inside and
outside the classroom. Cheating on exams and term papers (i.e., plagiarism and unauthorized
collaboration) is obviously discouraged and will be treated appropriately. The usual penalty for
violations is a failing grade for the particular assignment in question; however, in some instances, such
actions may result in a failing grade for the course.

Artificial Within this class, there are situations and contexts where you will be allowed to use AI programs such
Intelligence as ChatGPT, DALL-E and others. Outside of these specific guided activities, you will not be permitted
Policy: to use AI tools for any reason.

Using ChatGPT or other generative AI outside of these specific guided activities or to generate any
other course content will be considered an academic integrity violation.
5