# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: O4 | Spring, syllabus, ###, Chris Labash, 2025, Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, Professional Speaking 95718 Sections, 2025
Course outline, schedule, class
**Document Length**: 5565 words

---

# Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Class Tuesday, Thursday; O4: 9:30-10:50 in HBH 1208; B4: 11:00 – 12:20 in HBH 1208.
(Class will also always be available via live-streamed and recorded Zoom. That said, this is an “In-Person
Expectation” class, so we expect to see you in the room, not on the monitor.)
Instructor Chris Labash clabash@cmu.edu (Office hours by appointment)
TAs (Office hours by appointment) Martin Michelini/Zahra Ebrahimi (martinmi@andrew.cmu.edu)
(zebrahim@andrew.cmu.edu)
Course website https://sites.google.com/andrew.cmu.edu/cmu-95718-prof-speaking/home
My office HBH 3021
My phone numbers 412 268 3817 (office); 412 983 6250 (mobile)
My website http://www.chrislabash.com
Introduction
Whether we like it or not, all the skill, talent, and creativity in the world isn’t enough in the workplace. The ability to
actively communicate ideas quickly, credibly, and memorably is a key “soft skill” that is a requirement for senior workers,
and a prerequisite for advancement in almost every industry. This course gives students who aren’t natural-born
presenters (which is about 99% of the population) some key skills, techniques, tricks, and insights into the essence of
verbal communication in the enterprise, and will help you give your ideas the noticeability and power they need in today’s
marketplace. Whether you’re looking for a job, a raise, a way to have your voice heard more convincingly and effectively
in meetings, or funding for a big idea, your ability to effectively present yourself and your ideas is a critical and often
overlooked skill.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Course Goals.
### *  Get you comfortable with communicating yourself and your ideas to small & large groups;

### *  Give you immediately-applicable skills;

### *  Expose you to a variety of “presentation situations;”

### *  Have you come out a more prepared, confident, and comfortable professional, able to present yourself, your ideas,

and most important, the evidence that supports you, more clearly, powerfully, and effectively.
### *  Learn that the real point of any communication is to inform, persuade, understand, share ideas, and (especially in the

workplace) cause action.

Overview
This is a class designed to help you communicate in the real world. More than just a class in presentation skills, you’ll
learn what it takes to communicate well in the most practical sense. Which means that this isn’t a class that features
exploring interpersonal or intergroup communications models or the social framework of reality or personality typing or
whatever, but a class designed to help you succeed in and beyond the workplace. We will establish a baseline of your
skill, provide lots of feedback along the way, and look at your growth between your first presentation and your last.

Tools
Notebook, Journal, iPad, Surface, laptop, index cards, stone tablet (not recommended) or something to take good notes
with and keep good notes in. Good notetaking is essential to success in this course. Let me say that again in bigger type:
Good notetaking is essential to success in this course.

If your note-taking skills could be
improved, check out the Cornell Note Taking System: http://lsc.cornell.edu/study-skills/cornell-note-taking-system/. Or see
your TA or me.

Texts and readings
There are no assigned texts for the course. Check out the “Learning Resources” listed in this syllabus and the long list of
helpful books and other resources on my website. And (see above) take a lot of notes because I mention a lot of sources
and evidence in class.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Course Outcomes/Learning Objectives
### At the conclusion of the course you will be prepared to routinely:

### *  Think critically and use evidence in support of your positions and presentations;

### *  Understand the principles of creating a sound argument and applying effective persuasion techniques;

### *  Understand how to identify and engage with your audience;

*  Design and deliver effective presentations that will convince, instruct, and move your audience to action.

Grading
Attendance: On the one hand, it’s your money and if you want to blow off the course it should be your decision, and your
consequences that you have to live with. On the other, it’s a course about effectively communicating, and so its central
concept is one of communicating. You will learn not just by listening to the instructor but by doing, by listening to your
classmates doing and giving feedback, and by measuring your own improvement over time. Since you have an obligation
to your fellow students to be there for them and give feedback, and since the instructor and the university have an
obligation to put prepared, professional graduates out in an unforgiving and continually changing workplace, attendance at
each class is urged. I won’t say that it is mandatory, as you’re all adults and should be able to figure out for yourselves
what to do. But attendance impacts learning and that’s why you’re here. I do notice attendance, and grade accordingly.

Scheme: Here’s how your grade gets decided:
### Lightning Round Presentations: 10%

### Convince Me Presentation: 10%

Tech Talk (Revised) Presentation: 20%
Final Presentation: 45%
Paper: 15%
The standard grading scale applies, which means that to get an “A”, you must be perfect: perfect on every assignment.
(Note: I often exceed “maximum” points in a grading category. If, for example, your presentation is exceptional in its
delivery, argument, visuals etc, I’ll grade at above 100%. This is what makes it possible to get to an A+). Here’s the
grading scale, per the Heinz College Handbook, Section 5.1:
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
A+: 4.33
A: 4.00
A-: 3.67
B+: 3.33
B: 3.00
B-: 2.67
C+: 2.33
C: 2.00
C-: 1.67
Academic Integrity
In other words, cheating. Here’s the good news: this is a really hard course to cheat in. Here’s even better news: we can
be very clear about what cheating is (and if you have any question about whether something would be considered
cheating, ask me, our TA, the Program Director, the Dean, another faculty member)…
Cheating: “intentionally using or attempting to use unauthorized materials, information, or study aids in any
academic exercise.”
Fabrication : “intentional and unauthorized falsification or invention of any information or citation in an academic
exercise.”
Plagiarism: “deliberate adoption or reproduction of ideas or words or statements of another person as one’s own
without acknowledgement.” Put simply: you cannot just copy-and-paste a sentence, paragraph, table, image,
or other work from another document or web page and represent it as your work, especially if it’s a long
passage. You can reproduce a short statement, for exposition, as long as there are quotation marks around the
statement, and it has a proper inline citation (I prefer APA style, but IEEE or MLA are acceptable). This lets me
(and everyone else) know what work you are building on or relating to, and what work is your original thinking.

Which, by the way, is what we are all interested in. A simple footnote or endnote is not enough.
…about the University’s policy toward cheating…
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
http://www.cmu.edu/policies/documents/Cheating.html
…about the best ways for you to not feel compelled to cheat (not that you would)…
Prioritize your work: time management is your friend.

Own your own work: Be proud of your work. Why would you want to take credit for someone else’s? Always cite
your sources.

Get help: When you have trouble, get help from Instructors or TAs.
…and most important, of the overriding ethical consequence: when you cheat you diminish your self (yes, in the psychophilosophical sense), you devalue your work, and you dishonor your community and your history.

Of more immediate relevance might be this: cheat in my class and you get a “0” for the assignment, reported to the
Dean, and I will lower your course grade by one letter; egregious offenses result in failure of the course. So
seriously, why would you plagiarize, fabricate, or cheat in any way?

Academic Rigor
Like many (and I hope most) people, I am deeply troubled by the attitude of indifference towards evidence, the
sophomoric fact-checking (if it happens at all), and the acceptance of outright lies that are prevalent in current global
culture. This penchant for ignorance is particularly noticeable in United States’ culture and current political climate and has
deep, far-reaching, and profoundly disturbing present and future impact.

I couldn’t care less what political, religious, social, or other existential affiliation you have, but I cannot abide willful
stupidity, laziness, or sloppiness. What this means in practical terms is that everything that you present in this class must
be based on solid, vetted, verified, trusted, current, neutral evidence: solid academic research, business research or (on
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
rare occasions, as a supplement to research or in areas where research is scarce because of the newness of the field),
expert testimony.

In this class we won’t concentrate just on the mechanics of communication, but also on the commitment to evidence and
the critical thinking skills that are elemental to solid argument and good decision-making. What this means, even more to
the point, is that it is insufficient to merely cough up the first-page Google search of a topic and think that you’ve done
your research. You are graduate students at Carnegie Mellon; we expect academic rigor. Do good research. Vet your
sources. Cite your sources. Develop strong arguments. Write and present professionally. Don’t lift others’ work and just
plop it into an assignment (even with citation), for example.

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities
If you have a disability and have an accommodations letter from the Disability Resources office, please discuss your
accommodations and needs with me as early in the semester as possible. I will work with you to ensure that
accommodations are provided as appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from
accommodations but are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu.

Taking care of yourself
This is a stressful program, a stressful time of your life in general, and a stressful time for the world. So your first job is to
take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol,
getting enough sleep (!) and taking some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us are struggling in one way or another, and will benefit from support. Carnegie Mellon has many helpful resources
available on campus and an important part of your college experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support
sooner rather than later is always the right thing to do.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings of anxiety or depression, don’t
wait: get help immediately. Call Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) at 412-268-2922 or visit their website:
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Reach out to a friend, faculty or family member you trust for help getting connected to
the support that can help.
### If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone immediately, day or night:

CaPS: 412-268-2922.

Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226
If the situation is life threatening, call the CMU Police at 412-268-2323; off campus call 911.

If you have questions about this or your coursework, please let me know.

Late or missed work
From time to time, extenuating circumstances may arise that interfere with your ability to make a presentation or complete
an assignment as scheduled. While we obviously expect you to schedule such events around class times, if you have no
alternative but to miss a class you must alert the professor and TA as soon as you are aware of the need and we will try
to find an alternate time or solution. I also take points off when you arrive late to class. It’s disrespectful to the class and to
me, disruptive to your colleagues as they are presenting, and unprofessional.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Presentation Grading Rubric
This matrix tells you what I expect of you, what I look for, and how it translates to points that translate to a grade. What I
expect of you of course is consistent, superior performance, and by the end of the course, that’s what you should be able
to deliver (that’s why the final presentations are most of your grade). More important though, this matrix tells you what the
organizations that are going to hire you expect of you. I’ve based it on the rubrics presented in the American Journal of
Business Education – Fourth Quarter 2008 as well as other research-supported best practices and those that I’ve
observed and categorized over my teaching and business careers.

Criteria Superior performance (6-5 pts) Average performance (4-3 pts) Poor performance (2-0 pts)
## 1.0 Appearance & Manner - Speaker well-credentialized, was at - Some credentialization - Minimal or absent

## 1.1 Credentialization ease, authoritative and professional - No apparent discomfort credentialization

## 1.2 Comfort - Demeanor, confidence, and - Acceptable, expected - Clear discomfort

## 1.3 Professionalism presence enhanced credibility professional demeanor - Unprofessional demeanor

## 2.0 Structure - Well-crafted, understandable - Understandable structure - Poor structure

## 2.1 BLUF structure - Purpose and point of - Purpose and point of

## 2.2 Scope - “Ask” or “Bottom Line” or purpose presentation were discernable presentation hard to identify

## 2.3 Logic and point of presentation were - Scope, logical structure and - Scope, logical structure and

## 2.4 Flow clearly indicated transitions were understandable transitions were hard to

### - Appropriate scope, logical structure understand

and transitions
## 3.0 Content & Evidence - Extremely valuable, applicable & - Understanding of topic was - Accomplished assignment only

## 3.1 Value of content interesting content evident partially or indirectly

## 3.2 Quality of evidence - Thorough understanding of topic - Generally good evidence used - No supporting data, or data that

## 3.3 Balance of evidence and audience - Support information was easily was presented was not relevant

## 3.4 Citations - Excellent & substantial use of understood or accurate

vetted, balanced evidence to support - Uneven or incomplete citations - Content overall was dull,
content inaccurate, irrelevant
### - Evident & thorough citations

## 4.0 Argument, Influence, - Strong, well-thought-out, well- - Unevenly stated argument, - Poor or no argument, position,

Persuasion documented argument presented position, or point-of-view or point-of-view
## 4.1 Quality of argument - Where applicable, principles of - Where applicable, at least two - No principles of persuasion and

## 4.2 Principles of persuasion persuasion and influence were principles of persuasion and influence used (if applicable)

or influence understood and used effectively influence were used
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
## 5.0 Explanation - Accomplished assignment directly - Accomplished assignment in a - Inadequate or illogical flow

## 5.1 Clarity and completely in a superior manner capable manner - Ill-defined or no discernable

## 5.2 Focus - All major topics covered and - Major topics covered but purpose

## 5.3 Logic supported by relevant, cited data supporting data weak - Support information was unclear

## 5.4 Importance - Compelling new information or - Little new information or insights or incorrect

insights presented; high level of - Lacked basic understanding of
critical thinking evident topic, audience and flow
## 6.0 Visualization - Visuals used extremely effectively - Visuals used fairly effectively to - Visuals ineffective: did not

## 6.1 Clarity to clarify, simplify, or emphasize clarify, simplify, or emphasize main clarify, simplify, or emphasize

## 6.2 Quality main points of communication points of communication main points

## 6.3 Density

## 6.4 Understandability

## 6.5 Efficiency

## 6.6 Story

## 6.7 Actionability

## 7.0 Delivery Mechanics - Exhibited high level of enthusiasm, - Uneven levels of enthusiasm, - Exhibited extremely low level of

## 7.1 Engagement confidence, and engagement with confidence & engagement enthusiasm, confidence &

## 7.2 Authority subject and audience exhibited engagement

## 7.3 Comfort - Audience interested, engaged, - Audience somewhat engaged - Audience passive

## 7.4 Conversation enthusiastic, interactive - Pace, volume, and enunciation - Projection consistently detracted

### - Pace, volume, and enunciation were acceptable but did not from presentation; speech was

enhanced the presentation enhance the presentation too slow/fast, could not be heard
### - Eye contact, gestures, and - Eye contact, gestures, and - Non-verbals consistently

movement were used effectively to movement were uneven, and detracted from presentation (read
hold audience attention could have been more effective from notes, monitor or screen; no
### - Extremely conversational, - Somewhat conversational & eye contact; no or excessive

authoritative tone authoritative movement, looked disinterested
### - Not at all conversational; stilted

## 8.0 Conclusion - Conclusive elements (timelines, - Conclusive elements present - Conclusive elements missing

## 8.1 Conclusive Elements milestones, next steps, etc) - Action inferred - No action indicated

(timelines, responsibilities, etc complete, well explained & displayed
## 8.2 Action - Clear action element indicated

### Point Key:

6: Exceptional; a role model | 5: Excellent | 4: Very Good | 3: Average | 2: Below average | 1: Barely visible | 0: Absent
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
And please, please again note that whatever you write or present or discuss or propose or argue or state, in any course,
in any situation, and for the rest of your academic and organizational career, as well as your life, should as much as
possible be supported by solid, real, vetted, confirmed evidence: academic or business research, cited inline and/or with
footnotes. Evidence: not unvetted information, opinion, misinformation, disinformation, bullshit, or lies. And yes, it makes
me crazy when people spout random gibberish not based on fact. Stupid is a choice.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Date Topic What we’ll be doing in class: Assignments for next class:
T 3/11 Introduction & 1.0 Introductions & feedback. 1.0 Develop a 2-minute “Lightning Round” presentation
Course 2.0 Course overview on something that you think that we should be
overview concerned about regarding an area of your choice, that
maps to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
(https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable
-development-goals/), Make the case about why this is a
topic that we should care about. Develop and illustrate
your presentation with power point slide(s) (or equivalent
visual).
## 2.0 TA Assignments will be coming shortly for your:

## 2.1 Support Team.

## 2.2 Final presentation topic assignment

R 3/13 Lightning Round: Impact Issue Revised Impact Issue presentation for 1/23 class. Watch
“Research” video.

T 3/18 Research, 1.0 Evidence Revised Impact Issue presentation for 1/23 class. Watch
Evidence, & 2.0 Approaching research “Argument” video.
### Critical Thinking 3.0 Critical Thinking

R 3/20 Argument, 1.0 Revised Impact Issue Lightning Round Watch “Presentation Basics” Video
Influence, & Presentations.
persuasion 2.0 Argument
## 3.0 Influence

## 4.0 Persuasion

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
T 3/25 Presentation Presentation basics Prepare “Information Point” presentation. Find one
evidence-supported fact (with full source cited) about
effectively and/or efficiently communicating information,
and support it with one ppt slide. You have 1 minute to
explain and share it with the class.

R 3/27 Information “Information Point” presentation Prepare “Convince Me” 2-minute presentation on your
Point final presentation topic that introduces your topic,
presentation convinces us that it can and should be studied, & shows
your workplan. Your final presentation is an 8-minute
presentation
T 4/1 Convince Me “Convince Me” presentations Watch “Communicating Complexity” video.
presentations
R 4/3 Communicating Communicating Complexity discussion Watch “Presentation Design” video
Complexity
### FINAL PRESENTATION MID-TERM REVIEW THIS

# WEEK WITH TA

T 4/8 Information Information Visualization discussion Prepare “Tech Talk” Lightning Round presentation: Take
Visualization a 2-minute slice of a technical presentation that you
have already done and, using the techniques learned in
class, revise it to be a better 2-minute slice. DO NOT
### CONDENSE THE ENTIRE PRESENTATION TO 2

MINUTES.

R 4/10 Tech Talk “Tech Talk” presentations (Not graded) Revise “Tech Talk” presentation: based on the feedback
presentations that you received in class, make your presentation
better.

T 4/15 Tech Talk Tech Talk Revised presentations (Graded) Prepare “Dear Data” Lightning Round presentation. As
Revised discussed in class, in this Lightning Round you have 2
presentations minutes to show us a simple (or complex, if you like)
data visualization of anything related to your life. Not
something random; your life. OK? (Like the number and
types of doors that you walk through in a week, get it?)
R 4/17 Lab “Dear Data” Lightning Round presentations Final presentations. See the description on page 14.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
T 4/22 Final For your assigned subject, clearly and effectively
R 4/24 Presentations present your work as described in the “Your Final
Presentation” section below. You’ll have 8 minutes to
present, using all of the techniques and best practices
covered in the course, and you are graded on your
critical thinking and the clarity, completeness, and
understandability of your evidence. Final presentations
are due to the TA no later than 4/21/25, 11:59pm ET. No
presentations will be accepted, nor changes permitted,
after that time. You will be called randomly to present,
so be ready.

S 4/27 Paper Final Paper due by 11:59pm ET (see “Your Final
Artifact,” below)
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Your Final Presentation
### Your TA will assign you a topic from the list that follows, and your assignment is to:

## 1. Research and create a presentation that identifies and supports the truth (the facts) as well as any misinformation

and disinformation relevant to the topic that you are assigned. Be clear about what the facts are about the topic --
and support with vetted data -- versus any misinformation and disinformation that surrounds it. Look also at the role
that AI is playing, or could play, in the accurate understanding of this topic.
## 2. Use any generative AI that you want to help you create the presentation.

## 3. Your presentation must cover the following:

## 1. Introduction

## 1. Your credentials

## 2. Why this is an important topic to study (recap from Convince Me)

## 3. What UN SDGs this topic maps to

## 2. The evidence that surrounds this issue

## 1. Visualized data (charts, graphs, tables, other visuals), not just text

## 2. Sources

## 3. Context, Misinformation & Disinformation

## 1. Source

## 2. Impact/effect

## 4. Implications and recommendations, based on the evidence, of possible/recommended next steps

## 5. Evaluation of the use of AI in the development of this presentation

## 6. References

Your audience for the presentation will be the members of the UN Council on Sustainable Goals.

Note: If you have a legitimate reason not to prepare a generative AI presentation (religious beliefs, watching too many
Terminator movies etc), let the TA know and we’ll provide an alternative way for you to complete the assignment.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Keep in mind that this is still about evidence: evidence that must be presented in an understandable and transparent way,
which means that we don't want to see bullet point hierarchies (see the red capitalized text below) of summary statements
that have no apparent data behind them. We want to see data: charts, graphs, visualizations, tabular data when
necessary, that supports your presentation.

Additionally, no bullet points (or bullet point proxies such as dashes, arrows, etc) are allowed on any slide of your
final presentation (not even the References). The only exception is if you reproduce an image in which bullet points are
a part and you have no ability to eliminate them. IF THERE IS EVEN ONE BULLET POINT ON ANY SLIDE OF YOUR
FINAL PRESENTATION, FIVE POINTS (out of 100) WILL BE DEDUCTED FROM YOUR SCORE.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
### Your Final Artifact:

Prepare a final ~250-word paper (with data illustrated) that summarizes the evidence and conclusions (but not your
personal point of view or AI lessons-learned) of your final presentation.

Paper Grading Rubric: The rubric for your paper is similar to that used for your presentation:
Criteria Superior (6-5 pts) Average (4-3 pts) Poor (2-0 pts)
## 1.0 Appearance & - Paper compares favorably to well- - Paper is acceptable, barely - Paper looks unprofessional, as

Presentation designed, professional academic or professional, and doesn’t stand out though little or no time or thought
policy papers. It is well-titled and in any way. has been invested in it.
looks interesting enough that you
want to read the contents.
## 2.0 Structure - Paper’s structure is logical and - Paper has understandable, - Paper’s structure and logic are

easy to follow, reflecting the author’s logical structure. hard to follow.
thinking about the reader’s journey
through the paper.
## 3.0 Abstract - Abstract is clear, concise, and - Abstract does adequate job of - Abstract missing, vague, or hard

precisely summarizes the major summarizing paper’s main points. to follow.
points and conclusion of the paper.
## 4.0 Content & Evidence - Extremely valuable, applicable & - Understanding of topic was - Accomplished assignment only

interesting content. evident. partially or indirectly.
- Thorough understanding of topic - Generally good evidence used. - No supporting data, or data that
and audience. - Support information was easily was presented was not relevant
- Excellent & substantial use of understood. or accurate.
vetted, balanced evidence to support - Uneven or incomplete citations. - Content overall was dull,
content. inaccurate, irrelevant.
- Evident & thorough citations.
## 5.0 Exposition - Ideas are fully developed. - Ideas are partially developed. - Ideas are largely unformed

and/or undeveloped.
## 6.0 Writing clarity - Writing is crisp, informative, and - Writing is understandable. - Writing is difficult to understand

unambiguous. or follow.
## 7.0 Writing professionalism - Writing is a superior example of - Writing is professional. - Writing is unprofessional.

professional, high-quality and highclarity academic or business writing.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
## 8.0 Design - Design and layout of the paper is - Design and layout of the paper is - Design and layout of the paper

professional, inviting, and enhances professional. is unprofessional.
the readability and understanding of - Visuals used fairly effectively to - Visuals ineffective: did not
the text. clarify, simplify, or emphasize main clarify, simplify, or emphasize
- Visuals used extremely effectively points of communication main points.
to clarify, simplify, or emphasize
main points of communication.
## 9.0 Conclusion - Paper’s conclusions clear. Next - Paper has an understandable - Conclusion missing or

steps or further research is indicated. conclusion. inconclusive.
## 10.0 References - References clearly listed in APA - References cited. - References missing or not

style. understandable.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
### Class participation:

Ask pretty much any professor, and we’ll all say that we really like it when you participate in class discussion and
activities. This is not so much for our own gratification as it is for yours: research shows that participation results in better
learning. So we certainly want you to participate in discussions that we’ll have in class (and while I don’t assign “formal”
points for participation, I do notice) and also do one more thing that, frankly, we’re experimenting with.

I’ve been trying to to crowdsource class notes on a Google Doc. What this means is at the end of every class, I’d like you
to add some highlights from your own notes to the Google Doc. In this way we’ll see if we can get a more expansive and
insightful document that you can not only use in this class, but continue to consult as you move through your academic
career and beyond.
### Here’s the link:

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1UK3kGsw7BvoIfQaemCwr5HYwdMjNROOBnrhbU5zJFFw/edit?usp=sharing
Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
### FINAL PRESENTATION SUBJECT AREAS (the TA will randomly assign):

## 1. Does morality matter?

## 2. What is the actual likelihood of AI becoming self-aware? What are the implications?

## 3. Should we be worried about our increasing "digital dependance?"

## 4. How will the operation and role of the corporation change in the next 50 years?

## 5. Are sexbots a good idea, bad idea, or will they not matter?

## 6. Is there value in generosity?

## 7. Does it matter that there are poor people?

## 8. Does Brave New World's Alpha - Epsilon structure actually make sense?

## 9. How likely is it that we actually are living in a simulation? Would it matter?

## 10. How likely is an AI-driven "Skynet" scenario? What could be done to mitigate it?

## 11. Could Universal Basic Income be implemented in the world? What would the impact be?

## 12. Does "school" still matter or is there a better way to approach education?

## 13. Is there a method of governing that is most effective?

## 14. Should governments "fix" certain prices (milk, gasoline, water etc) What are the implications?

## 15. Can we begin the effective colonization of space within the next 50 years?

## 16. Should the fact that dogs, dolphin, octopuses, and other species are self-aware change our relationship with them?

## 17. If technology comes after religion, what comes after technology?

## 18. Should there be additional sexes (versus mere gender classifications) (ala femalex, or "teen boy" "teen girl")?

## 19. What is the most likely next step in human evolution and how would it impact relationships?

## 20. Is global authoritarianism rising, falling, or staying at essentially a constant level? Does it matter?

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
Selected Learning Resources
Most of the things that we go over in class, as well as videos of your presentations and course-capture videos, will be
available on Canvas. Additionally, to help with your research, our librarian, Sarah Young, has established a research
portal for this course, available here: https://guides.library.cmu.edu/professional-speaking/
### I also reference a number of things in class, often rapid-fire. Here are some of them:

### Articles:

## 1. Jay, Anthony (1976) How to Run a Meeting, Harvard Business Review, Mar-Apr 1976.

## 2. Rogers, C. R., & Roethlisberger, F. J. (1991). Barriers and gateways to communication. Harvard Business Review,

69(6), 105-111.
### Books:

## 1. Cialdini, Robert B. (1993) Influence: The psychology of persuasion. New York: Morrow.

## 2. Delphi Complete Works of Aristotle (Illustrated) (Delphi Ancient Classics Book 11). Kindle Edition.

## 3. Frankfurt, Harry G. (2005) On Bullshit. Princeton University Press.

## 4. Frankfurt, Harry G. (2006) On Truth. Princeton University Press.

## 5. Gladwell, Malcolm. (2005) Blink: The power of thinking without thinking New York: Little, Brown and Co.

## 6. Kawasaki, Guy. (2004) The Art of the Start: The time-tested, battle-hardened guide for anyone starting anything New

York : Portfolio.
## 7. Kosslyn, Stephen Michael. (2007) Clear and to the point: 8 psychological principles for compelling PowerPoint

presentations. Oxford ; Oxford University Press
## 8. Kotter, John P., Whitehead, Lorne A. (2010) Buy-in: Saving your good idea from getting shot down. Boston, Mass.

Harvard Business Review Press.
## 9. Reynolds, Garr. (2012) Presentation Zen: Simple ideas on presentation design and delivery. Berkeley, CA : New

Riders.
## 10. Reynolds, Garr. (2013) Presentation Zen Design: Simple Design Principles and Techniques to Enhance Your

Presentations. Kindle Edition.

Professional Speaking 95718 Sections B4, O4 | Spring, 2025
Course outline, syllabus, rubric, and schedule Professor Chris Labash
## 11. Weston, Anthony. (1987) A rulebook for argument. Indianapolis, Ind. Hackett Pub. Co.

## 12. Thaler, Richard H.,Sunstein, Cass R. (2009) Nudge: Improving decisions about health, wealth, and happiness. Yale

University Press.
### Papers:

## 1. Ambady, N., & Rosenthal, R. (1992). Thin slices of expressive behavior as predictors of interpersonal consequences: A

meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 111(2), 256-274.
## 2. Niewoehner, R. J., & Steidle, C. E. (2009). The loss of the space shuttle Columbia: Portaging leadership lessons with a

critical thinking model. Engineering Management Journal, 21(1), 9-18.
## 3. Pennycook, Gordon; Cheyne, James Allan; Barr, Nathaniel; Koehler, Derek J; Fugelsang, Jonathan A. On the reception

and detection of pseudo-profound bullshit. Judgment and Decision Making; Tallahassee10.6 (Nov 2015): 549-563.
## 4. Sagan, C. (2007). The fine art of baloney detection. Paranormal Claims: A Critical Analysis, 1.

21