# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, Mondays, Hamburg Hall, class, public art, Public Art, Wednesdays, 1004
Spring, Mini
**Document Length**: 2798 words

---

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
### Instructor: Rachel Saul Rearick

Contact Info: rachelre@andrew.cmu.edu
Texts/Resources: Knight, Cher Krause. Public Art Theory, Practice, and Populism, Wiley-Blackwell;
1st Edition, 2008. ISBN-10: 1405155590
Odenkirk, Sarah Conley. A Surprisingly Interesting Book About Contracts, AMMO
Books, 2014. ISBN-10: 1623260248
Additional materials will be provided by the instructor in Canvas or during class.
_____________________________________________________________________________________
# COURSE EXPECTATIONS

Transitioning Our Class to Other Modes of Learning: There may be circumstances that will require the
instructor or the University to make a short-term switch to a fully remote environment. Should any of
these circumstances occur, you will receive an email from the instructor with an announcement
published on the Canvas site. It is highly recommended that you turn on your Canvas notifications to
ensure you are kept informed.

Attendance and Participation: During the first week of class, please alert me if you will need to miss
class for any excusable reason (religious observance, job interview, university-sanctioned event, etc.);
everyone will be permitted one absence without the deduction of points. If you do not use this absence,
5 extra points will be added to your lowest homework score when computing your final grade (i.e., extra
credit). This will be the only option for extra credit within the course.

If there are extenuating circumstances that require you to miss class repeatedly or for an extended
period, or without prior notice, please discuss the issue with me so that I can assist in connecting you
with the appropriate support, and/or review assignments given during that class session.

Because we will devote some class time to discussion around assignments, it is important to note that
we will be less concerned with finding an “answer” during the discussion, but rather we will be hoping to
engage in thoughtful conversation.
# COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course will examine the conceptual framework for what public art is and how artists are engaged;
as well as how public art projects are produced in the United States. In addition, students will gain
practical experience and knowledge of the public art administration field. The course will begin with an
introduction to public art practice, including a brief history of public art along with an exploration of
public art in context. Topics to be covered include: the selection of artists for projects, the role of
stakeholders in the public art process, the materiality of public art, object based artworks, temporary
installation and/or performance based artworks, contracts, the planning and funding of public art,
community engagement, and the importance of conservation and maintenance. Readings, videos, and
guest lecturers will give students an overview of the field of public art and the role that public art plays
in society.

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
# COURSE STRUCTURE

This course will utilize a series of readings, discussions, lectures, digital tools, and course-related
assignments. Readings and online discussions will provide an important foundation on key topics and
must be completed prior to each class. Lectures, in-class discussions, and digital tools will provide
opportunities to further engage with the content. Course-related assignments will assess student
learning in a range of topics. Course-related assignments and other details will be discussed in each
class.
# COURSE OBJECTIVES

### *  Discuss and recognize modern public art history, and practices in the United States and

articulate key concepts used in public art.
### *  Explain the role of the public art administrator including stakeholder engagement, funding

mechanisms, planning, and the practices required for the care of permanently installed works.
### *  Explore the differences between temporary and permanent public art works, and critically

understand when one vs the other is more appropriate for various settings.
### *  Identify the differences between an RFQ and RFP and how to implement an artist selection

process.
### *  Formulate a public art strategy for a site location and welcome constructive feedback from

colleagues.
*  Review an existing public art plan and provide written and critical feedback.
### *  Understand the purpose of an artist contract for a public art site and be able to have an

introductory knowledge of how to prepare a contract.
# TOPICS PER CLASS SESSION

### Class I, March 10: Introduction

### Class II, March 12: Objects and Materiality

### Class III, 17: Types of Public Art Continued

### Class IV, March 19: Collaboration

Class V, March 24: In the field
### Class VI, March 26: RFQs and RFPs

### Class VII, March 31: Artwork Selection

### Class VIII, April 2: Budgets

### Class IX, April 7: Art Plans

Class X, April 9: P Mock Art Plan Creation (In-Class Activity)
### Class XI, April 14: Presenter

### Class XII, April 16: Contracts

### Class XIII, April 21: Presenter

### Class XIV, April 23: Student Presentations / Recap

# COURSE EVALUATION CRITERIA

Course grades will be calculated using the following assessments which are listed below and posted in
Canvas. Additional readings and videos will be assigned and students will be expected to participate in
conversation around those components during class, however points will not be assigned to those
items. Each of those readings and videos are listed in Canvas with due dates.

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
### Assessment Description Possible Points Due Date

Local Public Artwork Review 10 March 17, 2025
National Public Artwork Review 10 March 24, 2025
Site Selection 15 March 26, 2025
Developing an RFQ for Existing Site 15 April 2, 2025
Critical Review: Temp vs Perm Public Art 20 April 9, 2023
Contract Review 5 April 14, 2025
Art Plan Review and Critique 25 April 23, 2025
### Local Public Artwork Review = 10 Points

Choose a public artwork on CMU's campus or within Pittsburgh City limits to learn about
independently. Briefly research the artist's practice and the artwork that you have selected. In your
own words, write a short summary (150-200 words) about the artist and/or the work. Then, select one
of the prompt questions below and write an additional 100-250 word response that reflects your
evaluation of the work:
### *  Do you believe the artist selected the appropriate materials to fabricate this work to convey

their intended message? Why or why not?
*  Do you believe the artwork has a relationship with the site where it exists? Why or why not? If
not, where might it be better situated OR what type of work might make more sense for this
site?
*  Does this artwork prompt social awareness in some way? If yes, how? If not, why?

During class on March 17, students will be asked to informally share the artist/artwork they
researched and their response to the prompt question they chose. Please cite any sources (not
included in your overall word count). Work must be typed and include double-spaced text, 1inch margins, and 12-point Times New Roman font. Submit your response via Canvas by the
date due.

National Public Art Review = 10 points
Visit the Americans for the Arts Public Art Network page online and select a project from their Year In
Review Database (link in Canvas). Read about the piece on their site, and then conduct additional brief
research online about the artwork, taking notes regarding its details and characteristics. Using Harriet
Senie’s criteria as found in her article “Responsible Criticism: Evaluating Public Art,”(link in Canvas)
imagine yourself as an art critic and write a 400-500 word evaluation/review of the work. Include 2-4
images of the piece with captions. The images and captions can be embedded into your written review
or attached as a separate page. Please cite any sources as a separate bibliography page (not included in
your overall word count). Work must be typed and include double-spaced text, 1-inch margins, and 12point Times New Roman font. Submit your response via Canvas by the date due.

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
### Site Selection = 15 Points

Based on class conversation and the first two assignments, propose a space somewhere within
Allegheny County limits where you believe there should be a new piece of public art commissioned. In
500-1000 words, write about:
### *  Why you believe this location would serve as an ideal place to situate a new artwork

*  Who would be engaged in developing the criteria for the work in / on this site?
*  What types of artworks should be considered for this space?
### *  Would the campus or regional community be invited to provide input into planning for the

proposed site? Why or why not?

Please include images of your proposed site. Work must be typed and include double-spaced text, 1inch margins, and 12-point Times New Roman font. Submit your response via Canvas by the date due.
### Develop an RFQ for Existing Site = 15

Based on RFQ samples provided in Canvas, put together a hypothetical RFQ to identify an artist for an
existing site. The instructor will go over a proposed location during class prior to the due date, and
upload images into Canvas for your reference. Within the RFQ be sure to include the following
information:
### *  A description of the site for where the work is being proposed, and rationale for the integration

of public art being applied to the site;
### *  What types of prior reference materials are being accepted from the artist for review, within

their submission;
### *  Identify who will be reviewing the artist materials for selection;

### *  Develop a project timeline within the RFQ from release of the RFQ through project completion

and;
### *  The budget for the site

Think about various types of artworks that should be considered and list them. Work must be typed and
include double-spaced text, 1-inch margins, and 12-point Times New Roman font. Submit your response
via Canvas by the date due.
### Critical Review: Temporary vs Permanent Public Art = 20 Points

Following weeks of critical discussion around the pros and cons of both temporary and permanent
works of public art, write a 1500-2000 word argument for one or the other (temporary or permanent
work). Consider things such as:
### *  Budgets

### *  Commissioning Bodies

### *  Conservation and Maintenance

### *  Intent of the Artwork

### *  Site Locations

### *  The Role of Community Engagement

### *  Societal Changes

Work must be typed and include double-spaced text, 1-inch margins, and 12-point Times New Roman
font. Submit your response via Canvas by the date due.

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
### Contract Review = 5 Points

Utilizing A Surprisingly Interesting Book About Contracts, review the sample artist contract that was
provided to you in Canvas via a Word document, for a small-scale public artwork. Download the
document so that you can track changes to the revisions that you would suggest, and make comments
within your document regarding anything that you feel was left out – which would be of benefit to
either the artist and/or the commissioning entity.
### Art Plan Review and Critique = 25 Points

After reviewing public art plans in class, conduct research of your own to find a publicly available Art
Plan – or use one of the plans provided in class / Canvas. Provide a 2500-3000 word critique of the plan
that takes into consideration topics such as:
### *  Benchmarks for the Plan

### *  Funding for the Work Within the Plan

### *  How the Plan Supports Artists and the General Public

### *  How the Plan Creates Spaces that Promote Engagement

### *  Stated Selection Criteria for Artists

### *  Support Exhibitions from Relevant Partners for the Plan

### *  The Varieties of Artwork Proposed Within the Plan

### *  The Validity of the Timeline Presented within the Plan

Work must be typed and include double-spaced text, 1-inch margins, and 12-point Times New Roman
font. Submit your response via Canvas by the date due.
### Additional Readings and Videos Without Associated Points:

### Reading: Chapter 1 in Public Art Theory and Populism

### Reading: Chapter 6 Public Art Theory and Populism

### Reading: ISC Article: Responsible Criticism

Reading: A Chapters 4 & 5 in A Surprising Interesting Book About Contracts
### Watch: Leaning Into the Wind

### Watch: From the Streets to the Galleries

# GRADING SCALE

Graduate
A+ 99 - 100 Exceptional A 94 - 98 Excellent A- 91 - 93 Very Good B+ 89 - 90 Good
B 84 - 88 Acceptable B- 81 - 83 Fair C+ 79 - 80 Poor C 74 - 78 Very Poor
C- 71 - 73 Min Passing R Below 71 Failing I Incomplete
Undergraduate
A 90-100%
B 80-89%
C 70-79%
D 60-69%
R 59% and below

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
# COURSE POLICIES

Accommodations for Students with Disabilities: If you have a disability and are registered with the
Office of Disability Resources, please use their online system to notify the instructor of your
accommodations and make arrangements to discuss your needs with the instructor as early in the
course as possible. The instructor will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate. If you suspect that you may have a disability and would benefit from accommodations but
are not yet registered with the Office of Disability Resources, please contact them at
access@andrew.cmu.edu
Intellectual and Professional Integrity: Students at Carnegie Mellon University are engaged in preparing
for professional activity of the highest standards, including the highest standards of ethics and integrity.

You are expected to have read and understood the Student Handbook and to conduct yourself in a
professional manner both inside and outside the classroom, particularly as representatives of this
course, the Master of Arts Management Program, Heinz College, and Carnegie Mellon University.

Misrepresentation of another’s work as your own (e.g. plagiarism and cheating) is widely recognized as a
very serious matter. Cases of cheating and plagiarism are viewed by the University as extremely serious.

Students found to have cheated or plagiarized on an assignment will receive a zero on the assignment
and information about the offense will be submitted to the Dean’s office for review. Severe penalties
may be imposed, up to and including expulsion.

Late / Make Up Work: Due dates for every assignment are provided on the course syllabus and in
Canvas. Unless otherwise stated, assignments are due on those days. However, recognizing that
sometimes things happen, you will be allotted one assignment that can be turned in late – up to two
days – without penalty.

For anything turned in late beyond the one allowance without penalty, 5 points will be deducted from
your score on that assignment.

Recordings: Students are allowed to record class sessions only with the instructor’s permission.

Permitted recordings are only for your personal use. Distribution of any recording is prohibited. This is to
protect your FERPA rights and those of your fellow colleagues.

Statement for Support for Students’ Health and Well-Being: Take care of yourself. Do your best to
maintain a healthy lifestyle by eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep,
and taking time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress. If you or anyone you
know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or feelings like anxiety or depression, you are
strongly encouraged to seek support. Counseling and Psychological Services (CaPS) is here to help: call
# 412-268-2922 and visit http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/

Technology: This class will involve the occasional use of technology (laptops, tablets and phones) during
class. Please keep your technology tools charged and nearby for use when designated by the instructor.

Having access to portable headphones with a microphone is also recommended. Research has shown
that divided attention is detrimental to learning, so please minimize distractions by turning off device
notifications and limiting open windows to related class work (for example: use of a Google doc to

# 93-809: Public Art

3:30 – 4:50, Mondays and Wednesdays
Hamburg Hall, 1004
Spring 2025, Mini 4 – Master of Arts Management
collaboratively take notes when working with a group). All personal matters requiring email, messaging,
texts, other homework, etc. must be handled outside of class.
# STUDENT RESOURCES

Food Insecurity
If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus
that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator at: cmu-pantry@andrew.cmu.edu