# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: American Economic Review, ###, Angrist, Alberto, Econometrics, Economics, Pischke, Evidence, David, Alan B. Krueger
**Document Length**: 1551 words

---

# Carnegie Mellon University
Heinz College
# 94-835 Applied Econometrics II

Course Syllabus
Spring Semester 2025, Mini 4, Section A4
# INSTRUCTOR

### Akshaya Jha, Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy

Office: 2218 Hamburg Hall (HBH)
Office Hours: Wednesdays 5pm-6pm and by appointment
E-Mail: akshayaj@andrew.cmu.edu
Phone: 412-268-4693
# COURSE ORGANIZATION

Class meets for lecture and discussion each Monday and Wednesday, March 10 through
April 25. Classes are scheduled for 3:30PM-04:50PM and will be in person in room HBH
## 1204. Recitations are scheduled for Fridays 11:00AM-12:20PM in room HBH A301.

Teaching assistants will hold regular office hours, conduct recitations, and assist in
grading assignments and exams. TAs will also be available for appointments at your
mutual convenience. We will announce office hours during the first week of class.

Head TA: Gabriel Monteiro (gmonteir@andrew.cmu.edu)
# PREREQUISITE

You are presumed to have taken 94-834 (Applied Econometrics I), and to have a solid
grounding in basic statistics, at the level of 90-711 (Empirical Methods for Public Policy
and Management), 90-786 (Intermediate Empirical Methods) or 95-796 (Statistics for IT
Managers). We will make good use of the material covered in those courses.
# READINGS

There is a set of readings from Mastering Metrics: The Path from Cause to Effect by
Joshua D. Angrist and Jorn-Steffen Pischke (Princeton University Press, 2015). This is a
relatively simple but sophisticated book. It is fun to read and is also very short (and
inexpensive!). If you like the style of the book we suggest you follow up with a more
advanced book by the same authors, Mostly Harmless Econometrics (Princeton
University Press, 2009).

You will likely find it useful to have a basic statistics textbook at hand. The book you
used in your preparatory statistics class (90-711, 90-786, 95-796, or similar course) will
be fine. In addition, many of you may find it helpful to have a standard econometrics
textbook available to provide additional material on the topics we are covering. One
good choice is Introduction to Econometrics by James H. Stock and Mark W. Watson
(Pearson). You can buy a used version of the 1st or 2nd edition, which should be quite
inexpensive at this point.
# COURSE CONTENT AND OBJECTIVES

Econometrics has an important place in the data sciences. As your textbook authors
say, the purpose of econometrics is to “untangle cause and effect in human affairs.”
Econometrics is essential for advancing understanding in the social sciences, conducting
public policy evaluation, and assessing the impact of business practice.

Applied Econometrics I was the first course in a two-course sequence designed to teach
the essentials of econometric methodology.
### During the first course you:

### *  Learned why random assignment is so useful for the purpose of sorting out

cause and effect.
### *  Developed a clear understanding of bivariate and multiple regression, and come

to appreciate the value and limitations of regression methods.
### *  Acquired an appreciation for the use of instrumental variables for the purpose of

evaluating causality in complex real-world applications.

Applied Econometrics II follows up by pursuing other methods and applications. In this
course you will:
### *  Learn how regression discontinuity is used to draw inferences about causal

effects from rules constraining human behavior.
### *  Use difference-in-differences techniques to study causality when experiments

happen naturally in society.
### *  Apply event study analysis and synthetic control methods to tackle causal

questions when there are multiple natural experiments, or small sample sizes.

Both Applied Econometrics I and Applied Econometrics II are “hands on” courses in
which you will not only learn to read and interpret existing studies, but will also conduct
econometric analyses of your own. The goal is to help you take your first few steps
toward becoming a “Metrics Master”! One of those steps is becoming competent and
confident in the use of Stata to conduct empirical analyses.

# GRADING AND ACADEMIC INTEGRITY

Your grade depends on the extent to which you demonstrate the capacity to solve
problems and think critically about econometric practice.

There will be four graded problem sets. All assignments must be typed up and
submitted online. Problem sets are due by 11:59pm on Mondays. Only assignments
that are submitted on time will be graded. However, as an accommodation, the lowest
assignment grade will be dropped when calculating your final grade.

The final grade is based on two exams (30 percent for the first exam, 38 percent for the
final exam), and problem sets (32 percent).

Exams are scheduled for March 26 and April 28. Students may be excused from exams
only if arrangements are made in advance or in the event of an emergency.

A grade of 0 will be assigned for any assignment or exam that does not conform to
University policies regarding academic integrity, and other penalties may also pertain,
including termination from enrollment at Carnegie Mellon. See the Heinz College
Student Handbook.
# THOUGHTS FOR THE SEMESTER

Your graduate-school experience might prove to be mostly enjoyable and carefree, but
it is likely to entail stress as well. The University Provost provides the following thoughts
for students. They seem very sensible to us:
Take care of yourself. Do your best to maintain a healthy lifestyle this semester by
eating well, exercising, avoiding drugs and alcohol, getting enough sleep and taking
some time to relax. This will help you achieve your goals and cope with stress.

All of us benefit from support during times of struggle. You are not alone. There are
many helpful resources available on campus and an important part of the college
experience is learning how to ask for help. Asking for support sooner rather than later is
often helpful.

If you or anyone you know experiences any academic stress, difficult life events, or
feelings like anxiety or depression, we strongly encourage you to seek support.

Counseling and Psychological Services is here to help: call 412-268-2922 and visit their
website at http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Consider reaching out to a friend, faculty
or family member you trust for help getting connected to the support that can help.

# TENTATIVE COURSE OUTLINE AND SCHEDULE

You should read the textbook carefully, and may find the following papers useful.

Topic 1. Regression Discontinuity Designs (4 lectures)
Core Ideas
*  Angrist and Pischke, Chapter 4.

Applications
*  Anderson, Michael L. (2014). "Subways, Strikes, and Slowdowns: The Impacts of
Public Transit on Traffic Congestion." American Economic Review, 104(9): 276396.
*  Howell, Sabrina T. (2017). "Financing Innovation: Evidence from R&D Grants."
American Economic Review, 107(4): 1136-64.
*  Nekoei, Arash, and Andrea Weber. (2017). "Does Extending Unemployment
Benefits Improve Job Quality?" American Economic Review, 107(2): 527-61.
*  Angrist, Joshua D., and Victor Lavy. (1999). "Using Maimonides’ Rule to Estimate
the Effect of Class Size on Scholastic Achievement." Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 114(2): 533-575.
*  Clark, Damon and Heather Royer. (2013). "The Effect of Education on Adult
Mortality and Health: Evidence from Britain." American Economic Review,
103(6): 2087-2120.
*  Solis, Alex. (2017). "Credit Access and College Enrollment." Journal of Political
Economy, 125(2): 562-622.
*  Urquiola, Miguel, and Eric Verhoogen. (2009). "Class-Size Caps, Sorting, and the
Regression-Discontinuity Design." American Economic Review, 99(1): 179-215.

Topic 2. Difference in Differences (4 lectures)
Core Ideas
*  Angrist and Pischke, Chapter 5.

Applications
*  Card, David, and Alan B. Krueger. (1994). "Minimum Wages and Employment: A
Case Study of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania." American
Economic Review, 84(4): 772-93.
*  Card, David, and Alan B. Krueger. (2000). "Minimum Wages and Employment: A
Case Study of the Fast-Food Industry in New Jersey and Pennsylvania: Reply."
American Economic Review, 90(5): 1397-1420.
*  Davis, Lucas W. (2004). "The Effect of Health Risk on Housing Values: Evidence
from a Cancer Cluster." American Economic Review, 94(5): 1693-1704.
*  Eissa, Nada, and Jeffrey B. Liebman. (1996). "Labor Supply Response to the
Earned Income Tax Credit." Quarterly Journal of Economics, 111(2): 605-637.
*  Linden, Leigh, and Jonah E. Rockoff. (2008). "Estimates of the Impact of Crime
### Risk on Property Values from Megan's Laws." American Economic Review, 98(3):

1103-27.

Topic 3. Event Study and Synthetic Control (4 lectures)
Core Ideas
*  Kline, Patrick. (2012). "The Impact of Juvenile Curfew Laws on Arrests of Youth
and Adults." American Law and Economics Review, 14(1): 44-67.
*  Abadie, Alberto, Alexis Diamond, and Jens Hainmueller. (2015). "Comparative
Politics and the Synthetic Control Method." American Journal of Political Science,
59(2): 495-510.

Applications
*  Autor, David H. (2003). "Outsourcing at Will: The Contribution of Unjust
Dismissal Doctrine to the Growth of Employment Outsourcing. " Journal of Labor
Economics, 21(1): 1-42.

*  McCrary, Justin. (2007). "The Effect of Court-Ordered Hiring Quotas on the
Composition and Quality of Police." American Economic Review, 97(1): 318-353.
*  Currie, Janet, Lucas Davis, Michael Greenstone, and Reed Walker. (2015).
"Environmental Health Risks and Housing Values: Evidence from 1,600 Toxic
Plant Openings and Closings." American Economic Review, 105(2): 678-709.
*  Abadie, Alberto, and Gardeazabal, Javier. (2003). "The Economic Costs of
Conflict: A Case Study of the Basque Country." American Economic Review, 93(1):
112-132.
*  Abadie, Alberto, Alexis Diamond, and Jens Hainmueller. (2010). "Synthetic
Control Methods for Comparative Case Studies: Estimating the Effect of
California’s Tobacco Control Program." Journal of the American Statistical
Association, 105(490): 493-505.
*  Bohn, Sarah, Magnus Lofstrom, and Steven Raphael. (2014). "Did the 2007 Legal
Arizona Workers Act Reduce the State's Unauthorized Immigrant Population?"
Review of Economics and Statistics, 96(2): 258-269.