# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: ###, Canvas, 94-419/819, students, CMU, 94, Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version, Spring 2025, 1/21/2025
**Document Length**: 3297 words

---

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 1 of 9

Lean Innovation Lab (94-491 / 94-891)
Carnegie Mellon University - Master of Information Systems Management Program
12(variable) Units
Faculty Advisor: Dr. J. David Riel, 2107E Hamburg Hall, 412-268-5542, djriel@cmu.edu,
Office Hours: 30 minutes following each class
Teaching Assistants: Akanksha Janna ajanna@andrew.cmu.edu, Shreya Raut sraut2@andrew.cmu.edu,
Meet Patel mppatel@andrew.cmu.edu
### Office Hours: See Module 1 Slide Deck

Course Administrator: Randy F. Trzeciak, CIC 3335, 412.268.7040, randallt@andrew.cmu.edu
### Course Schedule (subject to change):

Heinz Academic calendar: https://www.heinz.cmu.edu/heinz-shared/_files/img/current-students/heinzacademic-calendar-2024-25.pdf
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 2 of 9

### Course Prerequisites:

Optional prerequisites include experience with lean innovation frameworks, project management/IT project
management, critical thinking skills, estimation, org management, communication & strategizing
### Course Description:

Lean Innovation Lab is a specialized Heinz College course designed to challenge students to tackle new &
emerging problems through mission-driven entrepreneurship. Students select from a set of carefully
curated, complex, real-world problem sets and learn about the problem sponsors & their organization, their
culture, & their mission to instill a culture of relentless resilience & new innovative practice. Students will
learn to apply Lean Innovation frameworks & tools to identify key stakeholders, understand their needs, &
develop & test iterative minimum viable products (MVPs) that lead to an applicable solution. Using a
flipped-classroom approach, the students will brief the teaching team on their progress each week &
receive direct coaching from their instructors & advisors, mentors, & subject matter experts from across
public & private entrepreneurship ecosystems. Problem sets will focus on solving problems across public
agencies in government as well as dual-use applications in private sectors & industries.

Problem sets will focus on solving problems in specific public agencies including the armed forces (Navy,
Army, USAF, Marines, National Guard, etc.) & branches of DHS including the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), Cybersecurity Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), Transportation
Security Administration (TSA), etc. as well as private sector firms.
### High-Level Learning Objectives & Outcomes:

### Skills & knowledge the students are expected to gain & how they will be assessed include:

-Hands-on experience in understanding & working w/ public & private entities on real-world problems
-Applying appropriate Lean LaunchPad tools & techniques (MMC, VPC, etc.) to successfully organize &
operate within a public/private sector project boundary which will allow for the proper evaluation,
escalation, risk management, summarization & congregation of appropriate deliverables to all stakeholders
(beneficiaries, program sponsor, faculty, etc.) involved in the project.
-An appropriate selection & demonstration of hypothesis formulating, discovery, info gathering &
hypothesis testing through confident knowledge & skills that will be applied to the final prototype &/or
other deliverables.
-Development of critical thinking skills, interviewing, teamwork, complex problem solving, & building of
professional networks through an entrepreneurial mindset.
-Applications of extracting insights from data collection for effective problem assessment & solving that
are applied to the scope development through creation of MVPs & that allow for a properly vetted design,
construction, & eventual summation of the project.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 3 of 9

-Clear, concise, & effective storytelling through presentation of findings & final deliverables with a formal
client signoff process that ensures proper closure to the expected final project state.
### Reading Materials & Campus Wide Resources:

### Required texts:

The Hacking for Defense Manual: Solving National Security Problems with the Lean Methodology
by Jeff Decker PhD, Steve Blank, Joseph H. Felter PhD, Peter A. Newell, et all
ISBN-13: 979-8334614857 https://www.amazon.com/Hacking-Defense-Manual-National-Methodology/
Project-specific readings & forms are available on Canvas or will be distributed in the first meeting.
### Textbooks used for reference & are free via the CMU library include:

## 1. Business Model Generation: Osterwalder, et al [BMG]

## 2. Value Proposition Design: Osterwalder, et al [VPC]

## 3. Startup Owner’s Manual: Blank & Dorf [SOM]

### Software includes (but is not limited to):

Communication & tracking software: Slack, MS Teams, Piazza (on Canvas), Discord, etc.

Project specific tracking software: Trello, MS Project, or anything utilizing a Gannt Chart, Burndown
Chart, Work Breakdown Structure (WBS), etc.

File repository & versioning: GitHub, Box, Google Drive, Dropbox, Canvas, etc.

Feel free to utilize your favorite coding & development tools for both your prototypes & documentation /
presentations. Make sure that everyone on the team as well as the program sponsor & faculty advisor have
the ability to access & review.
### Attendance Policy:

Students are expected to attend all scheduled mandatory meetings with the faculty advisors & program
sponsors, as well as all presentations & final requirements. As most of this course involves team-based
work including live presentations, it is imperative that students are a part of each active session including
all interview sessions. Absences/lateness must be handled professionally & approved in advance.
### Cheating, Plagiarism, & Academic Integrity:

Students at CMU are engaged in preparation for professional activity of the highest standards. Each
profession constrains its members with both ethical responsibilities & disciplinary limits. To assure validity
of the learning experience, Carnegie Mellon establishes clear standards for student work. You are required
to be familiar with all university policies on this subject (see https://www.cmu.edu/policies/student-&-
student-life/academic-integrity.html). An extract of these policies is reproduced here:
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 4 of 9

In any presentation, creative, artistic, or research, it is the ethical responsibility of each student to produce
their own academic work & identify the conceptual sources of the work submitted. Failure to do so is
dishonest & is the basis for a charge of cheating or plagiarism, which is subject to disciplinary action.
### Cheating includes but is not necessarily limited to:

Plagiarism which is explained below.
o
Submission of work that is not the student's own for any part of the deliverables.
o
Submission or use of falsified data.
o
Theft of or unauthorized access to an exam or quiz. (if applicable)
o
Use of an alternate, stand-in or proxy during an examination. (if applicable)
o
Use of unauthorized material including textbooks, notes or computer programs in the preparation of
o
an assignment or during an examination. (if applicable)
Supplying or communicating in any way unauthorized information to another student for work on
o
the project outside of the team or during an examination (if applicable).

Collaboration in the preparation of work on the project outside of the team. Unless specifically
o
permitted or required by the advisor, collaboration will usually be viewed by the university as
cheating. Each student is responsible for understanding the policies of the department offering any
course as they refer to the amount of help & collaboration permitted in preparation of projects.

Submission of the same work for credit in two projects without obtaining instructor permission.
o
Plagiarism includes (but not limited to) failure to indicate source with quotation marks or footnotes
where appropriate if any of the following are reproduced in the work submitted by a student:
A phrase, written or musical.
o
A graphic element.
o
A proof.
o
Specific language.
o
An idea derived from the work, published or unpublished, of another person.
o
One application of this plagiarism policy for this course is that you may not provide or receive information
on individual work completed (applicable for work spanning more than one semester) unless approved
beforehand. This includes both students from prior semesters & students from other sections in this
semester. The rule of thumb is that the work provided is to be original work from the individual & the team.
### Course Web Sites:

Canvas: http://canvas.cmu.edu Slack: https://slack.com/
We will use the Canvas site for hosting initial information & announcements. If you are registered in a LIL
project, you should already have access. Your login id is your Andrew ID & password. Canvas has an upto-date copy of the syllabus, schedule, pertinent documentation, A/V, & any LIL announcements. While we
will try to make announcements both in our meetings & on Canvas & Slack, it is a good idea for you to
check & utilize both sites regularly. Additionally, Canvas has links to readings & relevant sites mentioned
in our meetings with more extensive background materials.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 5 of 9

Slack is our primary communication & sharing tool. All project related information should be addressed
through this site. No other sites or tools should be used without prior authorization from faculty advisors.
### Grading & Course Requirements:

You will be evaluated based on your project analyses, participation in discussions, & project presentations.

Your project analyses will be graded as group work. Your grades for individual participation & technical
input will be your own. Grades will tentatively be given at the mid-term & final. Final grades will also be
contingent on an evaluation of changes between the mid-term & final grade (meaning that the final grade
can be affected by increase/decrease of how you were graded in the mid-term). Canvas should only be used
to track individual grades, not cumulative. The grading system on Canvas does not accurately track the
grading scheme used in this class. Please follow up with the TA &/or myself for grading questions.
### The final grade for the course is distributed among various contributions:

Grade
Individual
Team Professionalism (1/6)
Professionalism (1/6)
(based on client/sponsor evaluations, team
(based on peer &
responsibilities to advisor & client such as
client/sponsor evaluations, = 1/3
meeting attendance, responsiveness, &
observations, attendance &
organization of project work, and weekly
class contributions)
submission requirements)
Individual Technical (2/6)
(based on peer & Team Technical (2/6)
client/sponsor evaluations, (based on client/sponsor evaluations, the teams
weekly assignments, team- outbriefs and mid/final presentations, & the
based research, scoping, teams’ abilities to research, scope, & implement = 2/3
technical knowledge & technologies to solve the client problem, as well
contributions of your work to as documenting & presenting their findings)
the team effort)
Total Grade: 1
### Total grade will equate to the final letter grade based on a 100-point scale. Grading Scale is as follows:

### GPA Letter Percentage GPA Letter Percentage

### Grade Grade Grade Grade

## 4.33 A+ 98-100+ 2.67 B- 80-83.9

## 4.00 A 94-97.9 2.33 C+ 77-79.9

## 3.67 A- 90-93.9 2.00 C 74-76.9

## 3.33 B+ 87-89.9 1.67 C- 70-73.9

94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 6 of 9

## 3.00 B 84-86.9 0 R 0-69.9

### An example breakdown is as follows:

### Student Individual Individual Team Team Total Letter

### Name Tech Prof. Tech Prof. Grade

Jean Doe 95 95 89 90 92.1 AJeff Dee 90 83 89 90 88.5 B+
### Jake Dell 80 100 89 90 88 B+

Jill Dean 100 100 89 90 94.5 A
Other areas that will be considered for grading can include assessments, attendance to other project
presentations, & other requirements set forth in the project.
### A Note on Regrade Requests:

### If you believe that your grade is inaccurate, you may request a regrade under the following conditions:

## 1. Regrade requests must be submitted in writing within 7 days of the date when the grade was given.

## 2. Regrade requests must outline reasons you deserve a change in your grade. Referencing another student’s

grade is inappropriate & irrelevant. While we do our best to apply an even standard across students, we
can’t discuss anyone else’s grade with you, so we need to deal with the merits of your individual case only.
## 3. We reserve the right to regrade the entire assignment requested for review & thus your grade may go up,

down, or stay the same. This regrade is considered final.
## 4. LIL project participation grades are inherently subjective & not subject to regrade requests. We will make

notes on participation at the end of each meeting & assign end of semester grades based on these notes.
### Late Submission Policy:

All late deliverables are subject to a grade penalty of 10% per day past the due date/time, with a maximum
of 4 days. Anything submitted beyond 4 days past the due date will receive an automatic 0. Teams &
individual submissions are subject to the same policy. Any issue with meeting a deadline must be cleared
through the advisor or client/sponsor prior to the submission date/time or will be subject to the penalty.

Use of Generative AI (ChatGPT)
I expect you will use AI (e.g., ChatGPT and image generation tools) in this class. In fact, some assignments
may require it. Learning to use AI is an emerging skill and to get started, I have provided three tutorials below:
### *  How to use ChatGPT to boost your writing

### *  The practical guide to using AI to do stuff

94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 7 of 9

### *  APA citation guidelines for GAI (ChatGPT example)

### You should also be aware of the limits of ChatGPT:

*  If you provide minimum-effort prompts, you will get low-quality results. You will need to refine your
prompts in order to get good outcomes. This will take work.
*  Don’t trust everything it says. If it gives you a number or fact, assume it’s wrong unless you either know
the answer or can check with another source. You will be responsible for any errors or omissions provided
by the tool. It works best for topics you understand.
*  AI is a tool, but one that you need to acknowledge using. Please include a paragraph at the end of any
assignment that uses AI explaining what you used the AI for and what prompts you used to get the results.

Failure to do so can constitute as an academic integrity violation.
*  Be thoughtful about when this tool is useful. Don’t use it if it isn’t appropriate for the case or circumstance
### Resources we may use to validate work against generative AI (and that you can use) include:

https://www.turnitin.com/ (built into Canvas)
https://github.com/jwkirchenbauer/lm-watermarking
https://gptzero.me/
Some CMU strategies being employed include https://www.cmu.edu/teaching/technology/aitools/index.html
-You may use generative AI for the following work: Group & individual work towards the group
-You may NOT use generative AI to create the following work: Surveys & individual assignments
-I am happy to meet and help you with these tools during office hours or after class.
### Diversity & Inclusion:

It is our intent that students from all diverse backgrounds & perspectives be well served by this course, that
students’ learning needs be addressed both in & out of this course, & that the diversity that students bring
to this course be viewed as a resource, strength & benefit. It is our intent to present materials & knowledge
that are respectful of diversity: gender, sexuality, disability, age, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, &
culture. Your suggestions are encouraged & appreciated. Please let us know ways to improve the
effectiveness & experience for you personally, or for other students on the team. In addition, if any of our
meetings conflict with your religious events, please let us know so we can make arrangements for you.

The topics & areas that we cover can vary, some of which can be difficult, not just intellectually but
emotionally. While we expect there to be rigorous discussion & even disagreement during our meetings,
we ask that you engage in discussion with care & empathy for the other members on the team as well as the
beneficiaries & sponsors we work with. Aim to disagree without becoming disagreeable. In this course we
will not shy away from the uncomfortable. Critically examining & assessing our most basic assumptions &
values is not just one of the tasks of philosophy but is an activity vital to living an authentic life. We urge
you to have the courage to the uncomfortable in this course. In exchange for your courage, we will work to
ensure an environment that supports your taking these intellectual & emotional risks.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 8 of 9

### Student Health & Wellness:

CMU & all classes, including this one, strive to accommodate students in all capacities by creating a
learning environment that considers health & well-being of all students. A review the university policies
regarding health & wellness can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/current-gradstudents/health-&-wellness/index.html
Graduate student policies can be reviewed at: https://www.cmu.edu/graduate/policies/index.html
Students who need to miss class should email their professors and/or TA’s. If personal accommodations are
needed, students should reach out to the Office of Disability Resources.
### Student Academic Success Center (SASC):

SASC focuses on creating spaces for students to engage in their coursework & approach learning through a
variety of group & individual tutoring options. They offer many opportunities for students to deepen their
understanding of who they are as learners, communicators, & scholars. Their workshops are free to the
CMU community & meet the needs of all disciplines & levels of study. SASC programs to support student
learning include the following (program titles link to webpages):
### *  Academic Coaching--This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support & group workshops

to help undergraduate & graduate students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching
assists students with time management, productive learning & study habits, organization, stress
management, & other skills. Request an initial consultation here.
### *  Peer Tutoring--Peer Tutoring is offered in two formats for students seeking support related to their

coursework. Drop-In tutoring targets our highest demand courses through regularly scheduled open
tutoring sessions during the fall & spring semesters. Tutoring by appointment consists of ongoing
individualized & small group sessions. You can utilize tutoring to discuss course related content,
clarify & ask questions, & work through practice problems. Visit the webpage to see courses
currently being supported by Peer Tutoring.
### *  Communication Support--Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication

consulting as well as group workshops to support strong written, oral, & visual communication in
texts including IMRaD & thesis-driven essays, data-driven reports, oral presentations, posters &
visual design, advanced research, application materials, grant proposals, business & public policy
documents, data visualization, & team projects. Appointments are available to undergraduate &
graduate students from any discipline at CMU. Schedule an appointment on their website (inperson, zoom synchronous, or recorded video), attend a workshop, or consult handouts or videos to
strengthen communication skills.
### *  Language & Cross-Cultural Support--This program supports students seeking help with language

& cross-cultural skills for academic & professional success through individual & group sessions.

Students can get assistance with writing academic emails, learning expectations & strategies for
clear academic writing, pronunciation, grammar, fluency, & more. Make an appointment with a
Language Development Specialist to get individualized coaching.
### *  Supplemental Instruction (SI)--This program offers a non-remedial approach to learning in

historically difficult courses at CMU. It utilizes a peer-led collaborative group study approach to
help students succeed & is facilitated by an SI leader, a CMU student who has successfully
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025

# 94-491 & 94-891 – Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus Page 9 of 9

completed the course. SI offers a way to connect with other students studying the same course, a
guaranteed weekly study time that reinforces learning & retention of information, as well as a place
to learn & integrate study tools & exam techniques specific to a course. Visit the website to see
courses with SI available here.
94-419/819 — Lean Innovation Lab Syllabus, Spring 2025 Version: 1/21/2025