# Document Metadata

**Extraction Date**: 2025-03-21
**Key Concepts**: Excel, one, class, CMU, two, Canvas, students, Gradescope, ###, Heinz
**Document Length**: 2739 words

---

# 90-760 Management Science II | Spring 2025

### Course Information Instructor Information

Course site: https://canvas.cmu.edu/courses/46936 Holly Wiberg (she/her/hers)
Office: HBH 2101H
## Section B3: Email: hwiberg@andrew.cmu.edu

### - Lectures: T/Th 2:00 – 3:20 PM@HBH 1002;

### - Recitations: F 2:00 – 3:20 PM@HBH 1002 Course TAs: Jessica Guo (AndrewID: zhiyug),

## Section C3: Nate Brooks (ncbrooks), Zhenyu Cao (zhenyuc),

### - Lectures: T/Th 3:30-4:50 PM@HBH 1206 Wesley Mawn (wmawn), Landon Summers (lsummers)

### - Recitations: F 3:30-4:50 PM@HBH 1206

Office hours will be posted on Canvas.

Course Description
This course, along with its companions (90-722 Management Science I and an optional elective 94-833 Multicriteria Decision
Making & Decision Analysis), are introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey various hands-on
quantitative and modeling methods useful to decision makers and analysts. We will develop a practical toolkit for solving
real-world decision-making problems.
# 90-760 focuses on making better decisions in the face of uncertainty, which we’ll tackle in three sections:

- Forecasting: Describe the uncertainty about future events using various forecasting methods (qualitative, timeseries, categorical, and causal models).
### - DMUU: Learn approaches to decision-making under uncertainty (DMUU), specifically simulation and stochastic

modeling methods.
- Applications: We will apply DMMU methods in multiple domains with policy relevance.

Note: There are several Management Science-related course tracks at Heinz. They overlap considerably but are tailored for
programs based on student career paths and interests. MSPPM, MS3, and PPM-DC students take two minis: Management Science
I and II (90-722, 90-760) in the spring of Year 1. Students in any track are invited to take 94-833 Multicriteria Decision Making &
Decision Analysis as an elective, which covers a different but complementary set of managerial decision tools.

Prerequisites/Corequisites
This course has no formal prerequisites but assumes knowledge of college pre-calculus (or its equivalent), including
summation notation, graphing, and interpreting linear and nonlinear functions. The course uses Excel intensively. If you are
not comfortable with Excel, you should work through some Excel tutorials before the course begins.

Intended Learning Outcomes (ILOs)
By the end of the Management Science course sequence, students will be able to…
● Model and solve quantitative problems in Excel – working with spreadsheets should feel second nature!
● Identify the right management science technique for your problem. You will become familiar with different
problem-solving approaches and their limitations. Even if you aren’t the one implementing them day-to-day,
you’ll know when to call upon the right specialists and consultants when the occasion arises.
● Apply management science techniques as an “end user modeler.”
● Take an end-to-end quantitative analytical approach to policy and business problems – from formalizing a
problem in mathematical terms to analyzing the model results. In short, you should be able to use the language
of mathematical modeling.

In 90-760, we will cover a broad set of “management science” techniques (whereas 90-722 focused on optimization). By
the end of this mini, you will have achieved these ILOs in the context of modeling and solving problems involving
decision-making under uncertainty, with the core tools being forecasting, simulation, and stochastic models.

Course Materials
Textbook (Required): Cliff T. Ragsdale’s Spreadsheet Modeling and Decision Analysis: A Practical Introduction to Business
Analytics, 8th edition. You can order the textbook from Cengage. You can also use the 6th or 7th editions, although you
will want to watch out for problem number changes.

Software: You will need regular access to Microsoft Excel to complete assignments. If this is an issue, please let me know
and we can make necessary arrangements.

Updated 1/11/2025

Assessments and Grading
Grading consists of four elements: weekly homework, in-class cases (during recitation), exams, and
attendance/participation. You will have weekly homework assignments and two in-class cases that will allow you to apply
the current lecture content. These will include a mix of written analysis and hands-on Excel work. There will also be two inclass exams. Grading is broken down as follows:
% Grade Description
50% exams Midterm and final exam (25% each)
32% homework Best 3 out of 4 weekly HW assignments (equally weighted)
14% recitation cases Two cases (7% each)
4% attendance Requires attendance in lecture (with 2 “free passes”). See course policies below.

Grading philosophy and procedures
My goal is to prepare you to be quantitatively minded decision-makers and technical practitioners. The ILOs are designed
to reflect these goals, and grading will be geared towards attainment of the ILOs. Homework and exam solutions will be
posted with rubrics to explain point attribution. If you believe your assignment has a grading error, you must submit a
regrade request in Gradescope within three days of grade release. You must accompany the request with a clear and
specific written explanation.
### Course Expectations and Policies

Lecture Attendance: There are 12 lectures during this mini. I expect all students to attend lectures in person—and actively
participate—but you will have 2 “free pass” absences to be flexible to unexpected conflicts; no reason required. Attendance
will be logged through in-class question forms that you’ll fill out at the end of each class. These will serve primarily as a
pulse check for me to see where the class stands and adjust accordingly. These questions will be graded for completion,
not correctness—it is a way for you to stay actively engaged with the course content.

Recitations: Friday recitations will be hosted by your fantastic TA team. The content will vary by week, including lecture
content review, in-class cases, and exams. In-person attendance is mandatory on exam and case days. Recitation will not
be required on the weeks when there is no case or exam, but attendance is strongly encouraged. The recitations will allow
you to do hands-on exercises, work collaboratively, and ask questions. You must attend your assigned recitation time (either
B3 or C3); both sections are at capacity.

Homework assignments: Homework assignments will be due on Wednesdays (by midnight) via Gradescope and will
generally cover the previous week’s lecture material. We will not accept late assignments, but the lowest grade across all
homework assignments will be automatically dropped. You do not need to submit all four homework assignments – if you
do not submit one, it will by default be the dropped assignment.

You can work on assignments individually or in groups of up to 4 students. If you work in a group, you will submit one
assignment for your group: one student should upload the assignment write-up to Gradescope and link it to all group
members. You will also submit the corresponding Excel spreadsheet to Canvas (one member for the entire group). You do
not need to work with the same group all semester. Note: There should be minimal interaction across groups concerning
homework problems (or in-class cases). You may discuss the readings, concepts, and problems that are not assigned, but you
should not collaborate on the assigned homework problems in any way. Obtaining or providing a copy of another group’s work,
either their answers or a spreadsheet they used, is cheating and will be subject to sanction up to failure in the course and reporting
of the incident to the Dean for possible expulsion from the College.

In-class cases: There will be two cases in recitation, which are meant to be low-stakes opportunities to put the course
material into practice, honing your Excel skills and managerial interpretation of the results. These two recitations will have
mandatory in-person attendance.

Exams: Both exams will occur in class. The exams will be closed book, but you will be allowed a “crib sheet”: one 8.5 x 11”
handwritten sheet – one-sided for the first exam, and two-sided for the second exam. There will be no makeup exams
offered, pending extraordinary circumstances. You can bring a standard calculator to the exam.

Updated 1/11/2025

Unforeseen Circumstances: The past years have shown us new levels of uncertainty; there is a limit to how robust our plans
can be! If unusual circumstances arise, health-wise or otherwise, please let me know immediately. I will aim to
accommodate your needs (within reason), and we can work together to make a plan that allows you to succeed in this
class.

Lecture Recording: We will record the lectures through Zoom and will post them on Canvas within 24 hours of each lecture.

Note that the videos are intended solely for your personal educational use; they may not be shared with anyone outside of
your course section (including students who enroll in the course in future semesters). Unauthorized sharing of the videos
violates the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). Students may not record lectures.

Special Accommodations and Disability Resources: If you require disability-related accommodations, I encourage you to
reach out to me early in the semester. If you need an accommodations letter from the Office of Disability Resources,
please contact the office at access@andrew.cmu.edu. I will work with you to ensure that accommodations are provided as
appropriate.

Academic integrity statement
In this course, I will hold you to the high academic integrity standard expected of all CMU students. I do this for two
reasons. First, it is essential to the learning process that you are the one doing the work. I have structured the assignments
in this course to enable you to master the course material. Failing to do the work yourself will result in a lesser
understanding of the content and, therefore, a less meaningful education for you. Second, it is important that there be a
level playing field for all students in this course and in the College so that the rigor and integrity of Heinz’s educational
program is maintained.

Please review CMU’s Academic Integrity policy. Violating the policy in any way (e.g., plagiarism, unauthorized collaboration,
cheating, etc.) will result in disciplinary action. Possible sanctions include receiving a failing grade on the assignment or
exam, being assigned a failing grade in the course, having a formal notation of disciplinary action placed on your record,
suspension, or expulsion from CMU for the most serious cases.

Finally, we are entering a new era of education with the emergence of generative AI tools such as ChatGPT – one that
both educators and students are still navigating. In this class, we will adopt the following policy:
### - Generative AI tools can be used to support general learning or ungraded exercises, such as brainstorming or

reviewing general principles. Please let me know if you use AI tools for these purposes! I would be eager to engage
with any of you on this to get your perspective on where AI is useful and its opportunities/pitfalls.
- AI tools should not be used for any graded assignments unless explicitly allowed. GenAI cannot be considered a
substitute for developing the fundamental skills and expertise represented by the learning objectives of this
course. Please note that these tools rely on predictive models to generate content that may appear correct, but has
been shown to sometimes be incomplete, inaccurate, taken without attribution from other sources, and/or biased.

You are ultimately responsible for the content of the information you submit and may not attempt to pass off any
work generated by an AI program as your own.

Inclusivity Statement
I value an inclusive environment, as does the broader CMU community. I strongly believe that a culture that promotes
diversity, equity, and inclusion benefits all of us—it creates a better environment to work and study, and it unlocks
creativity and innovation to make us better problem-solvers.

With this in mind, I hope to foster a sense of community in this classroom and consider this classroom to be a place where
you will be treated with respect. We welcome individuals of all backgrounds, beliefs, ethnicities, national origins, gender
identities, sexual orientations, religious and political affiliations – and other visible and nonvisible differences. All members
of this class are expected to contribute to a respectful, welcoming, and inclusive environment for every other class
member. This is our shared responsibility. If this standard is not being upheld, please feel free to speak with me.

Reporting Resources: Unfortunately, incidents of bias or discrimination do occur, whether intentional or unintentional. They
create an unwelcoming environment for individuals and groups at the university. Therefore, the university encourages
anyone who experiences or witnesses discrimination to speak out for justice and support their colleagues. Anyone can
share these experiences anonymously using the Ethics Reporting Hotline (844-587-0793; cmu.ethicspoint.com).

Additionally, the Title IX office is dedicated to promoting gender equity at Carnegie Mellon University, which includes
coordinating the University's efforts to prevent and effectively respond to all forms of gender discrimination (including
Updated 1/11/2025

gender identity discrimination) and sexual misconduct impacting community members, including sexual assault, sexual
exploitation, sexual harassment, dating and domestic violence, and stalking. The office provides a comprehensive list of
reporting options within CMU and externally, including a form to report experiences directly to the Title IX office.

Student Wellness Statement
First off, please take care of yourself! School is important, but it’s not the only priority – take breaks, find stress relievers,
and get rest. Finding balance will help your quality of life and make you a better student. You will work best when you
bring your whole self and energy to class.

All of us struggle, and all of us can benefit from help in those times. As a student, you may experience a range of challenges
that can interfere with learning, such as strained relationships, increased anxiety, substance use, feeling down, difficulty
concentrating, and/or lack of motivation. These mental health concerns or stressful events may impact your ability to
attend class, focus, complete work, take an exam, or participate in daily activities. CMU services are available, and
treatment does work. You can learn more about confidential mental health services available on campus at:
http://www.cmu.edu/counseling/. Support is always available (24/7) from Counseling and Psychological Services: 412268-2922.
### If you or someone you know is feeling suicidal or in danger of self-harm, call someone immediately, day or night:

### - CaPS: 412-268-2922

### - Re:solve Crisis Network: 888-796-8226

### - If the situation is life threatening, call the police: 412-268-2323 (CMU) or 911 (off-campus)

Other resources
Student Academic Success Center (SASC): The SASC offers various programs to support your academic well-being. Consider
making an appointment with one of these services if you are interested. A few to highlight:
### - Academic coaching – This program provides holistic, one-on-one peer support and group workshops to help

students implement habits for success. Academic Coaching assists students with time management, productive
learning and study habits, organization, stress management, and other skills.
### - Communication support – Communication Support offers free one-on-one communication consulting as well as

group workshops to support strong written, oral, and visual communication.
- Language and cross-cultural support – This program supports students seeking help with language and crosscultural skills for academic and professional success through individual and group sessions.

CMU Food Pantry: If you are worried about affording food or feeling insecure about food, there are resources on campus
that can help. Email the CMU Food Pantry Coordinator to schedule an appointment (412-268-8704 (SLICE office); cmupantry@andrew.cmu.edu).

Tips for success
This class will move quickly – we have a lot to cover in seven weeks! I strongly encourage you to do the pre-readings
assigned before each lecture, since this will make the lecture content much more digestible. Additionally, the most useful
part of the class will be hands-on learning through case studies and homework assignments, so please take the time to get
“in the weeds” with all exercises, even if you are working in a group for homework or case. This is where you get to apply
the class material and see its practical value.

The class will also use Excel extensively. Don’t worry too much about Excel mechanics during lectures. I will run through
examples to show you what can be done, but recitation and office hours will be better places to work through Excel
questions. There is also a ton of Excel content online, so Google will be your quickest resource if you run into spreadsheet
bugs.

If you feel like you are falling behind at any point, my door is open. I encourage you to stop by office hours discuss
assignments, questions from lecture, or anything else (related to school or otherwise!); I look forward to seeing you! You
can also set up time to meet 1:1 to discuss specific issues with me. Finally, Heinz has tutoring resources available to
support your academic success – I am happy to connect you with a tutor as needed.

Updated 1/11/2025