# 90-440: Critical Analysis of Policy Research

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

This course prepares students to understand, interpret, and critique existing policy research. The course focuses on the development of three essential skills for policy analysts: 1) Read and interpret empirical results in published research. 2) Understand the assumptions needed to infer causal relationships and assess their plausibility. 3) Recognize common problems in policy research, including reverse causality, omitted variables, measurement error, etc., and use graphical methods to determine the direction of the resulting statistical bias. Using these three skills, students will practice understanding and critiquing policy research. Moreover, by identifying and understanding potential problems, students can make valid conclusions even from seriously flawed research. At the end of the class, students demonstrate these skills by independently evaluating an existing piece of research of their choice, presenting their findings in a written report and in-class presentation.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Brian Kovak - S25)
2. Syllabus (Brian Kovak - F24)

## Prerequisites

Any course covering the estimation and interpretation of linear regression.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/473621
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/422794

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-440
**Title:** Critical Analysis of Policy Research
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** Using these three skills, Recognize common problems in policy research, relationships and assess their plausibility, The course focuses on the development of three essential skills for policy analysts, reverse causality, resulting statistical bias, research of their choice, Moreover, report and in, Understand the assumptions needed to infer causal relationships and assess their plausibility
