# 90-747: Cost Benefit Analysis

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

As public policy analysts, we are often presented with making decisions that are economically efficient - that is, how does one gain the most benefit for society, given limited resources? Economics provides the theoretical foundation of decision-making, but putting theory into practice is not always easy. Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is an analytical tool used to determine the worth of a project, program, or policy. It identifies and attempts to quantify the costs and benefits of the project or program and provides decision-makers with manageable information to find the "best" outcome. CBA helps managers to answer questions such as: 多 Does the proposal provide a net benefit to the community as a whole? 多 Should the project/program/policy be undertaken? 多 Should the project/program be continued? 多 Which of the alternative projects should be undertaken? The course employs various economic and statistical techniques to answer these questions, condensed into a 6-week course.

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-747
**Title:** Cost Benefit Analysis
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Which of the alternative projects should be undertaken, Does the proposal provide a net benefit to the community as a whole, CBA helps managers to answer questions such as, Economics provides the theoretical foundation of decision, The course employs various economic and statistical techniques to answer these questions, Should the project, Cost, It identifies and attempts to quantify the costs and benefits of the project or program and provides decision, resources, As public policy analysts
