# 90-775: Decision and Risk Modeling

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course is one of several introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey a variety of hands-on quantitative modeling methods that are useful to decision makers and business and policy analysts. They overlap considerably, but are tailored for particular programs based on student career paths and interests. MSPPM, MS3, and PPM-DC students take two minis: Management Science I and II (90-722, 90-760) in spring of Year 1. PPM-DA & HCAIT students take a two-semester sequence: Optimization (90-755) and Decision and Risk Modeling (90-775) in spring of Year 1. Decision Analytics for Business and Policy (94-867) in Year 2. MISM students take one mini: Decision Making Under Uncertainty (95-760). Students in all three of those tracks, as well as the Army-BIDA program, are invited to take 94-833 Multicriteria Decision Making & Decision Analysis as an elective, which covers a different but complementary set of managerial decision tools.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Jonathan Caulkins - S25)

## Prerequisites

College pre-calculus and 90-755 or 90-722, including fluency graphing and interpreting linear and nonlinear functions. Ability to work fluently with concepts from probability including the Binomial and Normal random variables, distributions more generally, computation of mean & standard deviation, event probabilities, and Bayes Rule. Some concepts in 90-775 are easier to grasp if one knows regression, but regression per se is not a prerequisite. The course uses Excel intensively. If you have not become proficient with Excel in some other way, you should work through some Excel tutorials before the course begins.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/484902

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-775
**Title:** Decision and Risk Modeling
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** BIDA program, This course is one of several introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey a variety of hands, Decision Analytics for Business and Policy, Management Science I and II, Decision Making Under Uncertainty, Risk Modeling, Decision and Risk Modeling, HCAIT students take a two, DC students take two minis, Year
