# 90-760: Management Science II

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course, along with its companions (90-722 Management Science I and an optional elective 94-833 Multicriteria Decision Making & Decision Analysis), are introductory courses in analytics and management science that survey various hands-on quantitative and modeling methods useful to decision makers and analysts. We will develop a practical toolkit for solving real-world decision-making problems. 90-760 focuses on making better decisions in the face of uncertainty, which we’ll tackle in three sections: Forecasting: Describe the uncertainty about future events using various forecasting methods (qualitative, time-series, categorical, and causal models). DMUU: Learn approaches to decision-making under uncertainty (DMUU), specifically simulation and stochastic modeling methods. Applications: We will apply DMMU methods in multiple domains with policy relevance.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Model and solve quantitative problems in Excel – working with spreadsheets should feel second nature!
2. Identify the right management science technique for your problem. You will become familiar with different problem-solving approaches and their limitations. Even if you aren’t the one implementing them day-to-day, you’ll know when to call upon the right specialists and consultants when the occasion arises.
3. Apply management science techniques as an “end user modeler.”
4. Take an end-to-end quantitative analytical approach to policy and business problems – from formalizing a problem in mathematical terms to analyzing the model results. In short, you should be able to use the language of mathematical modeling.

## Prerequisites

This course has no formal prerequisites but assumes knowledge of college pre-calculus (or its equivalent), including summation notation, graphing, and interpreting linear and nonlinear functions.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/509831

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-760
**Title:** Management Science II
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** We will apply DMMU methods in multiple domains with policy relevance, This course, real, relevance, Decision Analysis, Forecasting, Management Science I and an optional elective, Multicriteria Decision Making, Applications, Describe the uncertainty about future events using various forecasting methods
