# 90-736: Public Finance

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

The purpose of Public Finance (90-736/90-435) is to provide an introduction to the theory and practice of how national, regional and local governments should and actually finance their budgets for operating and capital project purposes. To accomplish this, the course reviews: i] rationales for government intervention in the market place, ii] analyzes methods of resolving conflicts over the size of the public sector budget, iii] extensively analyzes the rationales and issues of various types of tax revenue, and iv] reviews the effects of public sector spending and taxes on the aggregate economy. Throughout, Public Finance emphasizes the interplay between how current revenue policy is fashioned, and how the models and their key assumptions along with political processes interact which result in changes in current law at the federal, state, and local levels. While the examples are largely drawn from the United States, examples are also drawn from around the world. Because the subject matter of public spending and revenues can easily consume an entire academic year of study, Public Finance focuses mainly on the revenue side of the public budget. Two courses typically offered by Professor Strauss in the Spring build on Public Finance. Public Expenditure Analysis (90-774/90-474) deals with techniques for evaluating private and public expenditure and capital spending decisions. Education Finance and Policy (90-817) deals in-depth with issues surrounding multi-level government finance from US and international perspectives. Public Finance is taught in lecture/discussion format with an emphasis on developing each student’s analytical reasoning skills. Original course lecture outlines in .doc format are maintained in Canvas, along with working Excel examples used in class, and assigned and optional readings. While Public Finance and Public Expenditure Analysis are self-contained, students who have had a semester of statistics and a semester of micro-economics at the principles or Advanced Placement levels will be more comfortable. Evaluation of student performance is based on evaluation of short-essay midterms and final exams, problem sets and class participation. Students may drop the lowest midterm and problem set grade. For more information about Professor Strauss and this course, see respectively: www.andrew.cmu.edu/user/rs9f under Teaching for the current course outline.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Robert Strauss - F24)

## Prerequisites

A course in microeconomics (e.g. 90-710 Applied Economic Analysis) A course in statistics

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/465202

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-736
**Title:** Public Finance
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** US and international perspectives, Students may drop the lowest midterm and problem set grade, Education Finance and Policy, result in changes in current law at the federal, regional and local governments should and actually finance their budgets for operating and capital project purposes, Public Expenditure Analysis, While Public Finance and Public Expenditure Analysis are self, respectively, Public Finance is taught in lecture, Evaluation of student performance is based on evaluation of short
