# 90-782: Multi Media

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

This course is about communication. Specifically, we will use various media elements (text, graphics, animation, video and sound) to form communicative units. The purpose of a multimedia piece is to communicate your message to the audience. The goal of this course is to use type, color, illustrations, images, sound, animation and video to produce professional materials. This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills. Students will also learn the terminology, procedures and production requirement to effectively communicate with ad agencies, design firms and commercial printers. Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications: *  Adobe InDesign CC *  Adobe Illustrator CC *  Adobe Photoshop CC *  Apple Garageband *  Adobe After Effects CC *  Apple Final Cut Pro/ Adobe Premiere Each of the above software programs will have one or two projects/assignments that will be completed by the student. These applications are available in the classroom as well as several public clusters. While the class offers a jump-start to these applications, students are expected to explore the higher level features on their own. Another resource is the Internet - which offers a wealth of tips and techniques for these applications.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Gary Franko - F24)
2. Syllabus (Gary Franko - S25)

## Prerequisites

None

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/465205
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/501277

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-782
**Title:** Multi Media
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** While the class offers a jump, This course is about communication, Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications, The goal of this course is to use type, Apple Garageband, Adobe After Effects CC, Apple Final Cut Pro, resource is the Internet, Adobe Photoshop CC, The purpose of a multimedia piece is to communicate your message to the audience
