# 90-801: Media & Communication Design I

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

The Media and Communication Design course focuses on using desktop publishing software to ef-fectively communicate messages in printed form. The goal of this course is to use the combination of type, color, shapes, illustrations and images to produce professional printed materials. The skills learned in this course can easily be translated to other media. This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills. Most classes will consist of two thirds lecture and one third hands-on work with the software. The software being taught is Adobe InDesign Creative Cloud (CC), Adobe Illustrator CC and Adobe Photoshop CC. Students will gain experience in preparing docu-ments that are professional in form and content. Student will learn how to design and publish prod-ucts such as newsletters, posters, logos, packaging, signs, books, flyers, magazines, annual reports, invitations and advertisements. Students will also learn the terminology, procedures and production requirement to effectively communicate with ad agencies, design firms and commercial printers.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Gary Franko - F24)

## Prerequisites

None

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/465204

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-801
**Title:** Media & Communication Design I
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** This course will teach a combination of graphic design skills and software skills, Students will also learn the terminology, Most classes will consist of two thirds lecture and one third hands, The skills learned in this course can easily be translated to other media, Adobe Illustrator CC and Adobe Photoshop CC, Student will learn how to design and publish prod, The goal of this course is to use the combination of type, The Media and Communication Design course focuses on using desktop publishing software to ef, requirement to effectively communicate with ad agencies, reports
