# 90-845: Social Entrepreneurship

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

The social-impact Lean Innovation Lab (“Social Entrepreneurship”) is a continuation of the course Entrepreneurship: A New Venture, designed to challenge students to tackle longstanding and emerging problems across the Learn-Earn-Career landscape (i.e. the Future of Work, Learning, Connection, and Opportunity). Students will have the option to select from a set of carefully curated, complex and real-world problem set(s) and/or introduce their own problem sets within the thematic focus. Students will be presented with the option of working as an embedded “frontend innovator” within an established organization (driving new-product and corporate innovation) or developing a solution to their problem statement as an independent new startup venture. Students will learn to apply lean innovation frameworks and tools to develop a foresight positioning and data-driven thesis and will use applied anthropology, ethnography, and quantitative analysis to develop conviction for an idea through the business invention process. A central component to the Innovation Lab is learning to synthesize and apply concepts and techniques from the Innovation Studio Process framework and across three distinctive phases: Phase I: Venture Design Rapid, systematic approach to research, define, envision and assess the best path forward for a new venture, product, service or experience. Research, Direction, Foundation and Investment. Phase 2: Venture Build Increased speed to market through focused sprints, and data collection and analysis, with a tailored team that matches the challenge. Team Setup, Design Sprints, Development Sprints, Data Analysis/Development Phase 3: Venture Growth A lean, iterative method to market validation through tracking and testing. Launch, Scale, Measure

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (John Zachary Ciccone - S25)

## Prerequisites

There are no hard prerequisite requirements for this course with exception for the student-entrepreneur completing the “20-10-10” analysis prior to the start of course and/or submitting their personal statement that aligns their course of study with a detailed definition (qualification) of the problem they aspire to solve through entrepreneurship. Optional, and encouraged, prerequisite include lean innovation frameworks (completion of Entrepreneurship: A New Venture and/or Lean Innovation Lab: 94891) financial analysis, management science I, project management, product management.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/493233

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-845
**Title:** Social Entrepreneurship
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Learn, real, Students will learn to apply lean innovation frameworks and tools to develop a foresight positioning and data, A central component to the Innovation Lab is learning to synthesize and apply concepts and techniques from the Innovation Studio Process framework and across three distinctive phases, Venture Growth A lean, Venture Build Increased speed to market through focused sprints, Measure, Development Phase, Rapid, Research
