# 90-838: Database Management for Policy Analytics

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

This course on database management systems provides students in public policy and healthcare analytics with valuable, marketable skills for efficiently managing and analyzing data. Mastery of database systems is essential for transforming raw data into actionable insights, whether it is for driving public policy decisions or improving healthcare outcomes. By focusing on practical, hands-on experience with relational databases, this course ensures that students develop the expertise needed to excel in data-driven environments, making them more competitive in their respective fields.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Perform basic installation and configuration of database systems following step-by-step instructions.
2. Describe the fundamental principles of the relational model and identify their applications in real-world data management context.
3. Interpret the Entity-Relationship Diagram (ERD) of an existing relational database depicted in Unified Modeling Language (UML)
4. Explain how business rules translate into an existing relational database design in a given real-world context and discuss its implications in the physical implementation of the database.
5. Analyze a given data retrieval task in a given database and fulfill it by formulating database queries using appropriate Structured Query Language (SQL) constructs, including but not limited to: Logical operators Built-in functions (including analytic functions) Inner and outer joins Grouping and aggregation Subqueries
6. Logical operators
7. Built-in functions (including analytic functions)
8. Inner and outer joins
9. Grouping and aggregation
10. Subqueries
11. Design conceptual database models using UML diagramming notation, translate conceptual models into logical models, and implement physical database designs with SQL.
12. Develop user-defined functions and triggers in an RDBMS.
13. Differentiate between relational and non-relational databases based on their intended purposes and design principles.
14. Create simple queries using the MongoDB Aggregation Pipeline.

## Prerequisites

Admission to the MSPPM-DA program

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/473619

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-838
**Title:** Database Management for Policy Analytics
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** relational databases, respective fields, analytics with valuable, This course on database management systems provides students in public policy and healthcare analytics with valuable, Mastery of database systems is essential for transforming raw data into actionable insights, raw data into actionable insights, By focusing on practical
