# 90-804: Media & Communication Design II

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course builds on the Media & Communication Design I class. In the Media & Communication Design I class we focused on print design, in the Media & Communication Design II class we will expand to audio, animation and video. We will be using Adobe Audition to create a podcast, Adobe After Effects CC to create animations and Adobe Premiere to create videos. The goal of this course is produce professional materials using type, color, illustrations, images, sound, animation and video. These materials will be able to engage and influence your target audience. This course will teach a combination of media design skills and software skills. Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications: *  Adobe Audition *  Adobe Premiere *  Adobe After Effects . Each of the above software programs will have one project/assignment that will be completed by the student. These applications are available in the classroom as well as several public clusters. While the class offers a jump-start to these applications, students are expected to explore the higher level features on their own. Another resource is the Internet - which offers a wealth of tips and techniques for these applications.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Gary Franko - F24)

## Prerequisites

None

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/475230

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-804
**Title:** Media & Communication Design II
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** While the class offers a jump, This course builds on the Media, Throughout the course students will learn the skills of the following applications, Media, The goal of this course is produce professional materials using type, Adobe Audition, We will be using Adobe Audition to create a podcast, These materials will be able to engage and influence your target audience, Adobe Premiere, resource is the Internet
