# 90-808: US Energy and Climate Policy

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This seminar will provide an introduction to modern U.S. energy and climate policy. Our goal will be to understand, from a practical perspective, how economics, technology, politics, public opinion and national security all influence the development and implementation of policy. With the ongoing need for an energy transition, the focus on climate change, and the impacts of the war in Ukraine, the need for understanding these issues is more important than ever. Questions that we will address include: Why has energy and climate taken on such a critical role in the public policy agenda? How has US policy changed over the years and what lessons have we learned from past initiatives? How much influence does government really have? How have new technologies changed the energy landscape and our interactions with other countries? The class will begin with an overview of the energy sector and the related government structure. We will then discuss Presidential initiatives and legislative activity, with particular attention to the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act and other ongoing efforts by the Biden Administration. We will consider a variety of specific examples, such as permitting of pipelines and transmission lines, EPA regulations, and carbon pricing, that demonstrate conflicting viewpoints about appropriate energy policy. The class will also explore international energy issues like liquefied natural gas and crude oil exports, as well as UN climate agreements. This course is a seminar class; I will provide a framework and then guide a discussion among the students. We will hear from guest speakers, including a number of current and former senior government officials.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Jeffrey Kupfer - F24)

## Prerequisites

None

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/466428

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-808
**Title:** US Energy and Climate Policy
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Questions that we will address include, really have, regulations, We will consider a variety of specific examples, Why has energy and climate taken on such a critical role in the public policy agenda, How much influence does government really have, UN climate agreements, How has US policy changed over the years and what lessons have we learned from past initiatives, Reduction Act and other ongoing efforts by the Biden Administration, I will provide a framework and then guide a discussion among the students
