# 90-840: The Media & American Politics

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course explores the relationship between media and politics in contemporary America and grapples with the influence of mass and social media on Americans' political attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors. We will consider the power of media to persuade, the extent to which media outlets are ideologically slanted, the role of new information technologies, and associated policy challenges. We will further consider how the media's stewardship of American democracy evolved over time. The media is ever-changing, and as such, this course is designed to raise questions that may not have clear or easy answers. However, students should leave this course equipped with the knowledge and tools to develop their own understanding of the complex relationship between the media and politics.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Summarize and describe current public policy challenges related to the media in US Politics
2. Identify the historical role of the media in US Politics and its influence on current media regulation. I want to do everything I can to support you.
3. Present policy solutions and recommend solutions to relevant stakeholders.
4. Effectively communicate perspectives on the media and politics in writing.
5. Plan, organize, and deliver coordinated work targeted at a goal.

## Prerequisites

There are no pre-requisites for this course.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/492959

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 90-840
**Title:** The Media & American Politics
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** We will further consider how the media, However, American democracy evolved over time, relationship between media and politics in contemporary America and grapples with the influence of mass and social media on Americans, We will consider the power of media to persuade, The media is ever, relationship between the media and politics, This course explores the relationship between media and politics in contemporary America and grapples with the influence of mass and social media on Americans, role of new information technologies, raise questions that may not have clear or easy answers
