# 93-721: Intro to Intellectual Property for Arts Managers

## Course Information

**Units:** 3

## Description

Spring 2025 dates: Friday April 11 - 10:00am - 3:00pm AND Saturday April 19 10:00 - 3:00pm Introduction to Intellectual Property for Arts Managers will introduce important concepts of trademark and copyright law. A significant portion of the the class will focus on copyright, with the goal of developing an understanding of the scope of rights, exceptions, and fair use. Considerations related to traditional cultural expressions will also be explored. While the class will introduce doctrine, emphasis will be placed on common issues and scenarios encountered by arts organizations. Students will also learn about creative commons licenses, considerations regarding social media, evolving discourse on artificial intelligence, and maybe even a bit about copyright in outer space.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Understand key doctrines of copyright and trademark law. Be familiar with resources available from governments, NGOs, and industry associations. Learn how intellectual property issues may present in arts institutions, and how different institutions approach these issues. Gain an understanding of copyright limitations and exceptions, including fair use. Practice using plain language to convey complex information.

## Prerequisites

None

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/509512

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 93-721
**Title:** Intro to Intellectual Property for Arts Managers
**Units:** 3
**Key Terms:** Friday April, While the class will introduce doctrine, Students will also learn about creative commons licenses, rights, related to traditional cultural expressions will also be explored, A significant portion of the the class will focus on copyright, regarding social media, Introduction to Intellectual Property for Arts Managers will introduce important concepts of trademark and copyright law, AND Saturday April, Considerations related to traditional cultural expressions will also be explored
