# 93-807: Museum Operations

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Museums aim to preserve, present, and interpret arts, culture, science, history, and heritage for the intended benefit of the public and society, as well as to create a forum for communities. All museums—regardless of type, size, and budget—face similar operational challenges (as well their own respective set of complications), which must be managed by stakeholders dedicated to executing mission and goals. In this course, students will gain a practical understanding of museum operations and the unique and multifaceted challenges of modern museum management. The course emphasizes museum standards and best practices, as well as identifies resources both within and adjacent to the industry. Cross-cutting topics, which build upon MAM first year coursework, include governance, financial sustainability, facilities, administration, visitor engagement and education, and collection stewardship. Additionally, case studies (via assignments and class discussion) address complexities in the museum field today, such as diversity, equity, and inclusion in museum leadership, issues in collections ethics, toxic philanthropy, and risk management. Assignments focus heavily on real-world challenges, requiring practical interpretation and implementation.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Rachel Rearick - F24)

## Prerequisites

Year 1 Coursework for MAM students.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/455967

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 93-807
**Title:** Museum Operations
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** requiring practical interpretation and implementation, regardless of type, respective set of complications, aim to preserve, MAM first year coursework, real, Cross, All museums, resources both within and adjacent to the industry, In this course
