# 93-809: Public Art

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course will examine the conceptual framework for what public art is and how artists are engaged; as well as how public art projects are produced in the United States. In addition, students will gain practical experience and knowledge of the public art administration field. The course will begin with an introduction to public art practice, including a brief history of public art along with an exploration of public art in context. Topics to be covered include: the selection of artists for projects, the role of stakeholders in the public art process, the materiality of public art, object based artworks, temporary installation and/or performance based artworks, contracts, the planning and funding of public art, community engagement, and the importance of conservation and maintenance. Readings, videos, and guest lecturers will give students an overview of the field of public art and the role that public art plays in society.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Discuss and recognize modern public art history, controversies, issues, and practice in the United States and articulate key concepts used in public art.
2. Explain the role of the public art administrator and the master planning process including stakeholder engagement, funding mechanisms, and the practices required for the care of permanently installed works.
3. Explore the differences between temporary and permanent public art works, and critically understand when one vs the other is more appropriate for various settings.
4. Identify the differences between an RFQ and RFP and how to implement an artist selection process.
5. Formulate a public art strategy for a site location and welcome constructive feedback from colleagues.
6. Review an existing public art plan and provide written and critical feedback.
7. Understand the purpose of an artist contract for a public art site, and be able to have an introductory knowledge of how to prepapre a contract.

## Prerequisites

There are no pre-requisites for this course.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/508569

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 93-809
**Title:** Public Art
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Topics to be covered include, United States, In addition, role of stakeholders in the public art process, This course will examine the conceptual framework for what public art is and how artists are engaged, The course will begin with an introduction to public art practice, role that public art plays in society, Readings
