# 94-829: Advanced AI and Enterprise Strategy

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course explores the dynamic intersection of leading-edge Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies and business strategy, equipping students with the knowledge and skills to harness the transformative potential of advanced AI for organizational success. In an era characterized by data-driven decision-making, AI-driven innovation, and evolving market landscapes, businesses need strategic leaders who can navigate the complexities of AI adoption effectively. This course draws upon the most recent development of AI technologies (such as Natural Language Processing, Deep Learning, Generative AI, Temporal-Spatial Big Data Analytics, etc.) and discuss the corresponding strategic applications for today's business and policy decision making. This course is designed for students with a background in technology, business, policy, management, or related fields who aspire to become strategic leaders in organizations leveraging AI. We will combine lectures, case studies, group discussions, hands-on projects, and industry guest speakers to provide with a holistic understanding of AI's role in shaping business strategy.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Understand AI fundamentals. Develop a comprehensive understanding of the core concepts, methods and limits underpinning the most recent advanced AI technologies, including deep learning, natural language processing, spatial-temporal data mining, image & video mining, LLMs and generative AI.
2. Analyze AI contexts. Analyze the contexts surrounding the use of advanced AI technologies. Describe the challenges of implementing advanced AI and business analytics in real-world organizations.
3. Evaluate AI applications. Analyze real-world case studies and applications of AI in different industries to assess how AI can drive innovation and create value in various business contexts.
4. Implement and present AI insights. Learn to implement some of the advanced AI tools to solve real-world problems, and to communicate AI insights to executives.
5. Ethical and regulatory considerations. Examine the ethical implications of AI in business, and explore how to navigate legal and regulatory challenges associated with AI deployment.

## Prerequisites

N/A

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-829
**Title:** Advanced AI and Enterprise Strategy
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** role in shaping business strategy, This course draws upon the most recent development of AI technologies, recent development of AI technologies, This course is designed for students with a background in technology, Temporal, Spatial Big Data Analytics, We will combine lectures, In an era characterized by data, This course explores the dynamic intersection of leading, Deep Learning
