# 94-835: Applied Econometrics II

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Econometrics is the statistical analysis of causal relationships in human affairs. Econometrics is essential for advancing understanding in the social sciences, conducting public policy evaluation, and assessing the impact of business practices. Applied Econometrics I and II is an integrated two-course sequence designed to teach the essentials of the econometric methodology. Econometrics I covers random assignment, multiple regression, and instrumental variables methods. Econometrics II covers regression discontinuity, difference-in-differences techniques, event study analysis, and synthetic control methods. Both Applied Econometrics I and Applied Econometrics II are “hands on” courses. Students learn to read and interpret existing studies, but also to conduct econometric analyses of their own. Pre-requisites: Applied Econometrics II: Students are presumed to have taken 94-834 (Applied Econometrics I), and to have a solid grounding in basic statistics, at the level of 90-711 (Empirical Methods for Public Policy and Management), 90-786 (Intermediate Empirical Methods) or 95-796 (Statistics for IT Managers). We will make good use of the material covered in those courses.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Akshaya Jha - S25)

## Prerequisites

(90711 or 90777 or 95796 or 90707) and (94834)

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/509191

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-835
**Title:** Applied Econometrics II
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** random assignment, Students are presumed to have taken, Econometrics is essential for advancing understanding in the social sciences, Statistics for IT Managers, Applied Econometrics I and II is an integrated two, Applied Econometrics II, Econometrics is the statistical analysis of causal relationships in human affairs, Both Applied Econometrics I and Applied Econometrics II are, We will make good use of the material covered in those courses, read and interpret existing studies
