# 94-853: Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Governance

## Course Information

**Units:** 3

## Description

As humans rely more and more on electronic devices to support their everyday activities, there are ever present warnings about the impacts such reliance has on human autonomy ranging from who owns and controls information networks, the inequitable impact of technology consumption on peoples and places, varying accessibility of technology around the globe, and the promises and limitations of technology in improving human health. By engaging in technology as a lens, this sequence of weekend micro-courses encourages students to examine technology as a system disproportionately impacting humanity by enabling and constraining human rights of groups of people around the globe. With a multi-disciplinary focus, the course invites researchers and practitioners from the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon, and relevant fields more broadly. In Spring 2022, the focus will be on the role governments and corporations play in the control of information networks and its impacts on privacy as well as ownership and access to data. This will include discussion of the bias and possibilities in surveillance and predictive technology on local and global communities. Added Note: The course will occur on Friday, Oct. 25, Saturday, Oct. 26, and Sunday, Oct. 27. Engagement in the course should be synchronous; accommodations for those in significant time zone differences will be provided to allow enrollment and completion of all elements of the weekend. If a student is interested in the course but unable to engage in the course dates, please reach out to Korryn Mozisek (kmozisek@andrew.cmu.edu).

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (XLISTED XLISTED - F24)

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/475005

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-853
**Title:** Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Governance
**Units:** 3
**Key Terms:** researchers and practitioners from the University of Pittsburgh, Saturday, The course will occur on Friday, This will include discussion of the bias and possibilities in surveillance and predictive technology on local and global communities, role governments and corporations play in the control of information networks and its impacts on privacy as well as ownership and access to data, Korryn Mozisek, By engaging in technology as a lens, Sunday, In Spring, If a student is interested in the course but unable to engage in the course dates
