# 94-845: Smart Cities: Growth and Intelligent Transportation Systems

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Cities all around the world are being built and re-invented as smart cities utilizing information systems and innovative applications of data analytics. One major smart cities component is transportation. The Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) industry is expected to grow at a rate of 8.5% per year until 2030 and reached a market size valued at $51.2 Billion in 2023. This shifting dynamic provides great opportunity for improved transportation safety and efficiency but also poses challenging information systems and public policy challenges. Furthermore, there are new opportunities for professional-school graduates outside of engineering schools for employment in transportation planning and policy. This course is supported by CMU’s Traffic21 Institute, Safety21 National University Transportation Center. Classes will feature guest lectures provided by Traffic21/Safety21 faculty and industry and government ITS professionals.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Develop an understanding of the underlying dynamics of the smart cities trend and how ITS is integrated. Smart Cities components in addition to transportation include; energy systems, health and human services, education, water and sewer infrastructure, public safety, etc.

## Prerequisites

n/a

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/422799

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-845
**Title:** Smart Cities: Growth and Intelligent Transportation Systems
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** ITS professionals, Cities all around the world are being built and re, analytics, The Intelligent Transportation Systems, Billion in, Furthermore, This shifting dynamic provides great opportunity for improved transportation safety and efficiency but also poses challenging information systems and public policy challenges, rate of, Classes will feature guest lectures provided by, reached a market size valued at
