# 94-826: Combatting Hate, Extremism, and Polarization

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

This course is a small group praticum course that will allow a small group to work closely with the advisor, Former Mayor Bill Peduto, on a project with the Strong Cities Network to continue previous student work and to provide quantitative and qualitative research and analysis for the participating cities. Students will utilize hate crime data, economic and societal demographic data as well as best practice models of local policies and programs to assist SCN and the National League of Cities in developing plans for each unique city. Students will have the opportunity to participate in on-line training with the leaders of each city and receive independent instruction by the Bill Peduto, local and national experts and SCN staff. The Strong Cities Network is an independent global organization of cities dedicated to addressing all forms of hate, extremism and polarization. Launched in 2015 at the United Nations, Strong Cities fills a critical gap in efforts that have typically overlooked the unique and important role cities can and must play in addressing these threats. Heinz College has partnered with SCN through two consecutive Capstone projects in 2024. With assistance from the work of the students, Strong Cities Network was able to launch their North American Hub in August and launch the first Prevention Academy for eight U.S. cities in November. About Strong Cities Network (SCN) Strong Cities is a global network of 200+ cities dedicated to combatting hate, extremism and polarization. Headquartered in London, the non-profit equips mayors and city leaders with the tools they need to address a complex and evolving threat environment and build socially-cohesive cities. By convening local officials with representatives from civil society, the private sector, national governments, and multilateral bodies, SCN provides leaders with forums to share experiences, challenges, and best practices – information which is further deployed through trainings, resource hubs, and advocacy work to build resilient cities around the world.

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-826
**Title:** Combatting Hate, Extremism, and Polarization
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** Headquartered in London, Strong Cities fills a critical gap in efforts that have typically overlooked the unique and important role cities can and must play in addressing these threats, SCN staff, United Nations, Former Mayor Bill Peduto, resource hubs, Heinz College has partnered with SCN through two consecutive Capstone projects in, Bill Peduto, November, receive independent instruction by the Bill Peduto
