# 94-819: Data Analytics with Tableau

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

After the successful completion of this course, students will have a basic understanding of how to start solving data-driven problems in Tableau. This course will cover the basics of how to use Tableau Prep to clean and prepare datasets. Students will also learn to leverage Tableau Desktop to visualize and analyze data effectively and create compelling dashboards and data stories. This course will face students with real examples and real-world data, as an increasing number of organizations nowadays collect data to support their decision-making process. *This course demands a quick pace, active participation, and intricate collaboration with your peers. Only officially enrolled students will receive credit, and attendance will not be permitted for anyone else.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Produce, comprehend, and run Tableau Prep flows to clean and prepare datasets. This includes creating and running flows with dedicated steps to address cleaning, reformatting, grouping, aggregating, and outputting datasets, with different formats.
2. Produce effective data visualizations that allow for data exploration and storytelling.
3. Develop data stories and visualizations for different stakeholders through Tableau sheets, data stories, and dashboards.
4. Develop a professional Tableau profile online to showcase your work done in this class.

## Prerequisites

Students are not expected to know Tableau or analytics, as this course will introduce them to these concepts. It is recommended that students take statistics courses such as 90-707, 90-711, or 95-786, as well as a database management course.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/494333

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-819
**Title:** Data Analytics with Tableau
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Only officially enrolled students will receive credit, Students will also learn to leverage Tableau Desktop to visualize and analyze data effectively and create compelling dashboards and data stories, This course will cover the basics of how to use Tableau Prep to clean and prepare datasets, After the successful completion of this course, This course demands a quick pace, receive credit, This course will face students with real examples and real, Tableau, real examples and real
