# 94-875: Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Environment

## Course Information

**Units:** 3

## Description

As humans rely more and more on electronic devices to support their everyday activities, there are ever present warnings about the impacts such reliance has on human autonomy ranging from who owns and controls information networks, the inequitable impact of technology consumption on peoples and places, varying accessibility of technology around the globe, and the promises and limitations of technology in improving human health. By engaging in technology as a lens, this sequence of weekend micro-courses encourages students to examine technology as a system disproportionately impacting humanity by enabling and constraining human rights of groups of people around the globe. With a multi-disciplinary focus, the course invites researchers and practitioners from the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon, and relevant fields more broadly. In Fall 2022, the focus will be on humanity’s use of technology and the disparate impacts on and benefits to the environment and varying groups of people. This will include discussion around the material, environmental, and health costs of extracting materials necessary to technology development and production as well as the waste created by the consumption habits initiated by global reliance on technology. It will also include a discussion of technology’s role in advancing sustainability. Added Note: The course will occur on Friday, Nov. 4th, Saturday, Nov. 5th, and Sunday, Nov. 6th. Engagement in the course should be synchronous; accommodations for those in significant time zone differences will be provided to allow enrollment and completion of all elements of the weekend. If a student is interested in the course but unable to engage in the course dates, please reach out to Korryn Mozisek (kmozisek@andrew.cmu.edu).

## Learning Outcomes

1. Identify and define the characteristics of technology’s positive and negative impact on humanity relative to the course focus (governance, environment, education, or health). [weekend worksheets]
2. Identify varying perspectives of stakeholders on issues related to technology and its impact on humanity relative to the course focus (governance, environment, education, or health). [weekend worksheets/activities, planning assignment, final paper]
3. Compare disciplinary approaches and perspectives on technology, humanity, and social justice in relation to course focus (governance, environment, education, or health). [weekend worksheets; comparison assignment]
4. Compare perspectives of stakeholders on issues related to technology and humanity to understand how this impacts perceptions and actions on the issue, particularly as it is concerned in finding a just resolution. [weekend activities, planning assignment, final paper]
5. Reflect on the level of influence varying stakeholders have or are denied in shaping actions on the issue of technology, humanity, and the course focus (governance, environment, education, or health). [weekend activities, planning assignment, final paper]
6. Examine why the perspectives of stakeholders compete with one another, including how this leads to potentially varying impacts on humanity depending on actions and what actions are considered as viable. [weekend activities, planning assignment, final paper]
7. Propose recommendations of action on an issue in relation to technology, humanity, and the course focus (governance, environment, education, or health) that represents the perspectives of stakeholders to develop a resolution. [weekend worksheets/activities, and final assignments]
8. Support proposed recommendations by developing a cost-benefit analysis, including how the recommendation(s) harm and benefit the varying stakeholders and its wider societal benefit. [final paper]

## Prerequisites

None is necessary. The course is set up to allow easy entrance for any student interested in the topic broadly or narrowly.

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-875
**Title:** Technology, Humanity, and Social Justice: Environment
**Units:** 3
**Key Terms:** role in advancing sustainability, researchers and practitioners from the University of Pittsburgh, Saturday, It will also include a discussion of technology, The course will occur on Friday, Korryn Mozisek, By engaging in technology as a lens, Sunday, This will include discussion around the material, If a student is interested in the course but unable to engage in the course dates
