# 94-843: Research Studio: Arts Management and Technology

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Centered within the intersection of research and futurism, this course is designed in a ‘studio model’ in which students gain an understanding of how to become a professional researcher while considering the changes affecting the artists and organizations of our industries – from technology to social justice to climate change. This course includes learning how to create content – from web pages to podcasts. Research produces new ideas and ideas gain greater meaning by being shared. Content creation has become a core activity of both individuals and businesses. Research-driven content is a key component and strategy of most consulting firms, arts organizations, and some artists. Hence, this course provides you with a research-based content creation model focusing on the arts and entertainment enterprises across the globe. Students simultaneously learn and experiment with how to create content using multi-modal, trans-media digital storytelling methods while learning how to frame meaningful professional research. Research findings are intended for publication on the content platform Arts Management and Technology, a curated by a student-managed team to serve professionals working in the field. This class is designed to provide a breadth of skills that will serve emerging professionals in various fields in the arts. With a focus on digital modes of communication aka content creation, young professionals leave the course with effective skills to communicate ideas to peers, supervisors, or customers. Furthermore, current and future leaders need to understand how to evaluate or conduct research emerging opportunities in order to make effective decisions. Adopting a studio model, students will spend time outside of class time gaining an understanding of theories and approaches to research and digital communication. In class, students will work actively to synthesize the theories and put them into practice, from creating an evidenced-based infographic to scripting and recording a podcast episode. Each student will be working on an independent project at the intersection of arts management. A list of potential, but not prescribed research topics are provided at the beginning of the semester and all assignments scaffold from inception to final digital products.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Refine non-fiction writing skills – both style and mechanics
2. Gain skills for distribution pathways in content curation for the web using multi-modal aka transmedia communication in written, audio, and visual storytelling formats
3. Develop fluency in the realm of podcasting, including the process of creation and distribution.
4. Generate content for their professional portfolio
5. Gain skills in locating and using diverse and reliable research materials to support a planned research project
6. Deepen evaluation skills in digital literacy

## Prerequisites

none

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/501272

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-843
**Title:** Research Studio: Arts Management and Technology
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** research and futurism, research topics are provided at the beginning of the semester and all assignments scaffold from inception to final digital products, Students simultaneously learn and experiment with how to create content using multi, This class is designed to provide a breadth of skills that will serve emerging professionals in various fields in the arts, Centered within the intersection of research and futurism, Hence, research and digital communication, researcher while considering the changes affecting the artists and organizations of our industries, Research, This course includes learning how to create content
