# 94-842: Programming R for Analytics

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

An introduction to R, a widely used statistical programming language. Students will learn to import, export and manipulate different data types, analyze datasets using common statistical methods, design, construct and interpret statistical models, produce a variety of different customized graphical outputs, create scripts and generate reproducible reports. There will be a focus on using this experience to apply these skills in public policy areas. Prerequisites: 91-801 Statistical Methods for Managers, or 95-796 Statistics for IT Managers A good knowledge of statistics is preferred, but this course is focused on anyone wanting to learn the basics of the R language and how to use the tools R offers to be able to do basic data analysis, statistical calculations, create graphical output and generate reproduceable reports using R Markdown.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Import, export and manipulate various types of stored data and datasets.
2. Produce statistical summaries of continuous and categorical data.
3. Produce basic graphics using standard functions.
4. Create more advanced graphics using ggplot2 and plot.ly packages.
5. Perform basic statistical and hypothesis tests.
6. Develop classification and regression models and generate common performance metrics.
7. Create reproducible reports with R Markdown.

## Prerequisites

91-801 Statistical Methods for Managers, or 95-796 Statistics for IT Managers

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/494332
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/456998

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-842
**Title:** Programming R for Analytics
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** R language and how to use the tools R offers to be able to do basic data analysis, Statistical Methods for Managers, Statistics for IT Managers A good knowledge of statistics is preferred, R Markdown, reproduceable reports using R Markdown, Students will learn to import, There will be a focus on using this experience to apply these skills in public policy areas, reproducible reports, An introduction to R, Prerequisites
