# 94-891: Lean Innovation Lab

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

Lean Innovation Lab is a specialized Heinz College supercourse that is designed to challenge students to tackle new and emerging problems through mission-driven entrepreneurship. Students will select from a set of carefully curated, complex, & real-world problem sets. Students will learn about the problem sponsors as an organization, their culture, and their mission to instill a culture of relentless resilience and new innovative practices. Students will learn to apply Lean Innovation frameworks and tools to identify key stakeholders, understand their needs, and develop and test iterative minimum viable products (MVPs) that lead to an applicable solution. Using a flipped-classroom approach, the students brief the teaching team on their progress each week and receive direct coaching from their instructors and advisors, mentors, and subject matter experts from across public and private entrepreneurship ecosystems. Problem sets will focus on solving problems across public agencies in government as well as dual-use applications in private sectors and industries.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (James Riel - S25)
2. Syllabus (James Riel - F24)

## Prerequisites

There are no hard prerequisite requirements for this class. Optional but encouraged prerequisites include a background in lean innovation frameworks, project management or IT project management, critical thinking skills, estimation, organizational management, communication, and strategizing. This class will also utilize the strengths of the team to determine technological expertise to employ in problem sets.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/509195
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/426540

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 94-891
**Title:** Lean Innovation Lab
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** Students will learn about the problem sponsors as an organization, real, Lean Innovation Lab is a specialized Heinz College supercourse that is designed to challenge students to tackle new and emerging problems through mission, relentless resilience and new innovative practices, Using a flipped, Students will learn to apply Lean Innovation frameworks and tools to identify key stakeholders, Students will select from a set of carefully curated, MVPs, Problem sets will focus on solving problems across public agencies in government as well as dual, receive direct coaching from their instructors and advisors
