# 95-771: Data Structures and Algorithms

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

95-771 is a one-semester, 12-unit course which covers the fundamental data structures and algorithms for information processing. The course uses the Java programming language to illustrate the concepts covered; students are expected to code their assignments in Java. Students enrolled in the course must have a prior background in programming (course work or practical experience). Students with an adequate grasp of programming should have little difficulty learning the Java constructs required to do their assignments. It should be noted that this is not a Java programming course. With the exception of some initial background information, the course does not focus on the Java language itself, and students who have not studied Java are responsible for acquiring any additional required skills outside of class. Students without adequate programming preparation should consider taking an additional programming course as a pre-requisite or co-requisite to this course. A major part of the course focuses on the design and analysis of data structures and their algorithms. Therefore, we will not be using the built-in Java classes that provide immediate access to such data structures. Who Should Take This Course? MSIT and MISM students: Required course for the Concentration in Strategic Information Processing and the Concentration in Medical Informatics. SCS & LTI MS students: Optional course for students who desire a hands-on programming course in algorithms and data structures. See your advisor.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Syllabus (Michael McCarthy - S25)
2. Syllabus (Michael McCarthy - F24)

## Prerequisites

95-712, 95-713, or Permission of the Instructor.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/494888
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/464898

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-771
**Title:** Data Structures and Algorithms
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** requisite to this course, requisite or co, See your advisor, Java are responsible for acquiring any additional required skills outside of class, Java, The course uses the Java programming language to illustrate the concepts covered, Java language itself, responsible for acquiring any additional required skills outside of class, Students enrolled in the course must have a prior background in programming, A major part of the course focuses on the design and analysis of data structures and their algorithms
