# 95-711: Learning Generative AI in Software Development

## Course Information

**Units:** 3

## Description

Dates: Friday, October 25 9am-1pm, Saturday, October 26 9am-1pm, and Sunday October 27 9am-1pm. Generative AI has the potential to significantly enhance developer productivity. This micro-mini course delves into how Microsoft Copilot can be used for various tasks, including code generation, chat assistance, refactoring, unit testing, data file manipulation, and documentation. Examples will span multiple programming languages, such as Java, Python, and JavaScript. The course will be hands-on and involve teamwork. Everyone will need a laptop to run code. There will be pre-work to set up your environment and post-work to include a short (1- to 3-page) paper.

## Prerequisites

While there is no formal prerequisite, it will be assumed that students have some programming background. Specifically, each student should already be familiar with concepts such as variables, data types, iteration, and functions in at least one programming language (not necessarily limited to Python or Java).

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/475012

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-711
**Title:** Learning Generative AI in Software Development
**Units:** 3
**Key Terms:** AI has the potential to significantly enhance developer productivity, Microsoft Copilot can be used for various tasks, refactoring, Friday, October, Java, There will be pre, Sunday October, This micro, Everyone will need a laptop to run code
