# 95-702: Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

With the emergence of the Internet as a computing platform, distributed applications are being widely deployed by organizations. Understanding the principles/theory and the technologies underlying distributed computing and systems design is increasingly important. Examples of technologies supporting such deployment include JEE architecture and Web services.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Describe the non-functional characteristics of distributed applications and differentiate between different types of middleware systems.
2. Design, implement, and deploy distributed systems using the prevalent models of web applications, web services, remote objects, and asynchronous messaging.
3. Understand the function and interplay of network protocols from ARP to application protocols that enable distributed systems on the Internet.
4. Demonstrate the technical ability to code solutions with core networking protocols.
5. Program solutions to run on all ranges of devices, including mobile, desktop, and cloud-based servers.
6. Understand the Network File System (NFS), the Andrew File System (AFS), and the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)
7. Understand the challenge of time in a distributed system, and implement a means of assessing a distributed system's state.
8. Understand transactions and implement a two phase commit protocol.
9. Describe the difference and similarities between symmetric key and asymmetric key cryptography.
10. Describe the reasoning behind each step of several cryptographic protocols including variations on Kerberos and SSL.
11. Demonstrate deploying containers to cloud infrastructure
12. Understand the problem of distributed consensus and design solutions

## Prerequisites

Prerequisite: 95-712 Object-oriented programming

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/494889
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/464599
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/464896
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/504109

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-702
**Title:** Distributed Systems for Information Systems Management
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** Examples of technologies supporting such deployment include JEE architecture and Web services, Understanding the principles, With the emergence of the Internet as a computing platform
