# 95-797: Data Warehousing

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Data warehouses are the central component of a modern data stack. They have solved the problem of analyzing massive amounts of structured & semi-structured data and are cost-effective, performant and easy to use. Data warehouses are the foundation for reporting, ad hoc analysis, business intelligence and machine learning, and enable collaboration among a diversity of users and stakeholders across organizations of all sizes. This class will provide students with the conceptual background and hands on keyboard skills needed to utilize a data warehouse effectively. Throughout the course, students will work on an end-to-end development project, building a working data platform for New York City transit data. Using actual taxi, rideshare, bike share and weather data, students will answer real-world analytics questions, such as "How does location and time of day affect trip length?" and "How does weather affect transit preferences?". By the end, students will be empowered with the tools and techniques needed to take a real-world data project from problem statement to prototype to production. MSIM Students: this is a coding intensive class in a language you may be unfamiliar with, during a time when you will be working on your capstone project and applying for jobs. Please carefully consider your availability and other obligations before registering for this class. AI Policy: this class teaches foundational skills and the allowed uses of AI assistance will be restricted.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Implement data ingest techniques (ETL)
2. Write advanced SQL for data analytics, including geographic and time series
3. Transform data using dbt
4. Compare modern and classic strategies of data modeling
5. Understand data warehouse architecture
6. Maintain data quality
7. Integrate a data warehouse in a broader data platform

## Prerequisites

95–703 A: Database Management (required) 95-829: Software Design for Data Scientists (strongly recommended or equivalent industry experience)

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/508880

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-797
**Title:** Data Warehousing
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Data warehouses are the central component of a modern data stack, real, How does location and time of day affect trip length, New York City transit data, MSIM Students, reporting, Please carefully consider your availability and other obligations before registering for this class, How does weather affect transit preferences, analytics questions, AI Policy
