# 95-788: Developing Blockchain Use Case

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Blockchains, or distributed ledger and consensus technologies, hold tremendous promise for improving markets and organically handling private, secure data. As CMU develops its own blockchain and token---CMU Coin---a central concern is to determine the set of applications that such technology would be most useful for. This course is designed for students to propose and, potentially, develop applications or use cases for a campus blockchain. http://tinyurl.com/cmucoincourse The course begins with a brief introduction to blockchain using Bitcoin as an example of a blockchain protocol. We will examine the market failure Bitcoin was intended to resolve as well as the role of cryptography and distributed systems in enabling this new technology to create societal value. The course will go on to discuss the boundaries of the role of cryptography in blockchain. Next, we will use these tools to evaluate existing, real-world blockchain use cases with an eye towards developing our own applications of these emerging technologies. Along the way, we will learn practical development skills in distributed ledger technologies to understand blockchain programming and application development. Finally, students will propose their own blockchain use cases for CMU's own proprietary blockchain. No formal prerequisites, but familiarity with programming is highly recommended.

## Prerequisites

No formal prerequisites, but familiarity with programming is highly recommended.

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-788
**Title:** Developing Blockchain Use Case
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** CMU Coin, Finally, real, recommended, No formal prerequisites, The course will go on to discuss the boundaries of the role of cryptography in blockchain, The course begins with a brief introduction to blockchain using Bitcoin as an example of a blockchain protocol, Along the way, Next, As CMU develops its own blockchain and token
