# 95-703: Database Management

## Course Information

**Units:** 12

## Description

Databases systems are central to most organizations' information systems strategies. At any organizational level, users can expect to have frequent contact with database systems. Therefore, skill in using such systems - understanding their capabilities and limitations, knowing how to access data directly or through technical specialists, knowing how to effectively use the information such systems can provide, and skills in designing new systems and related applications is a distinct advantage and necessity today. The Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is one type of database systems that is most often used these days, and is the primary focus of this course. Further, to provide students with opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures, various homework assignments, SQL assignments, and a database implementation project will be given.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Gain an understanding of relational data models in terms of data structure, data integrity, and data manipulation.
2. Understand and create conceptual database models utilizing entity-relationship modeling.
3. Design data structures that will limit redundancy and enforce data integrity while conforming to organizational requirements utilizing normalization methodology.
4. Understand the theory behind the relational data model as it applies to interactions with current database management systems
5. Read and interpret a given data model to query the database and transform the data into information using Structured Query Language (SQL).
6. Implement a data model in a current relational database management system.
7. Create SQL queries, based on transactional data, including elements such as data groupings and summary values.

## Prerequisites

There are no pre-requisites for this class.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/464900
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/492171

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-703
**Title:** Database Management
**Units:** 12
**Key Terms:** At any organizational level, The Relational Database Management System, Relational Database Management System, Databases systems are central to most organizations, Therefore, Further, SQL assignments, RDBMS, related applications is a distinct advantage and necessity today
