# 95-799: Linux and Open Source

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This course covers the Linux operating system, its related applications, and the Open Source Software (OSS) model. Emphasis is on how Linux is different from other systems. Note example syllabus may be from online or on-campus Mini. Topics and general structure are the same, quiz and participation grading vary between online or on-campus.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Install Red Hat and Debian based Linux distributions;
2. Maintain operating system updates;
3. Install and configure useful application software (LAMP stack apps, SAMBA, and others);
4. Interoperate between Linux and Windows;
5. Understanding of each of the following: Basics of Linux security; Major issues involved in Open Source licensing; Basics of Linux scripting and be able to write a simple script; Pros & cons of Linux & be able to decide where it makes sense to use it or not;
6. Basics of Linux security;
7. Major issues involved in Open Source licensing;
8. Basics of Linux scripting and be able to write a simple script;
9. Pros & cons of Linux & be able to decide where it makes sense to use it or not;
10. A sufficient knowledge framework of Linux upon which they can build if desired.

## Prerequisites

No pre-requisite courses. An Intel/AMD-based computer with a 64-bit CPU and hardware virtualization, on which to run the Lab exercises. A minimum of 8GB RAM is required. You will need at least 30-40GB of free disk space. Use of LibreOffice/OpenOffice Writer and Impress for class documents and presentations, in both your host and guest OS's. Use of VirtualBox to run Linux virtual machines. NOTE: M1/M2/M3/M4-based Apple Silicon Macs are not supported for this class. Most Macs sold since early 2021 have this incompatible chip. You can check yours via Apple menu -> About This Mac, then look at the Chip/Processor line.There are no workarounds, and Heinz does not provide any physical or virtual systems that can be used for this class. Students who register and have only an M* Mac will have to acquire an Intel/AMD-based computer to use, or drop the course. It doesn't have to be your school laptop though, it could be a spare older laptop or desktop with at least 8GB of RAM and and SSD drive, and that is still supported by current Windows or MacOS releases. Adequate used laptops are available for well under $200. You could think of it as an expensive textbook. Something like this $109 example from ebay would be just fine: https://www.ebay.com/itm/266857047723. Minimal specs are Intel or AMD dual-core CPU, 8GB RAM, 200+GB SSD (not spinning disk) storage. Make sure the listing includes Windows Pro 10/11 OS (not Windows Home) and a charger. Dell's model numbering for Latitudes can be confusing, you can check the model numbers at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dell_Latitude to see how old it is.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/509511
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/422797

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-799
**Title:** Linux and Open Source
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** Emphasis is on how Linux is different from other systems, related applications, Note example syllabus may be from online or on, Mini, Open Source Software, Topics and general structure are the same, This course covers the Linux operating system
