# 95-888: Data Focused Python

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This seven-week course focuses on the fundamentals of computer programming using the Python 3 interpreted programming language. Students will develop their problem-solving skills using the top-down procedural decomposition approach to build real-world based software applications. Pupils will also learn the basics of the software development lifecycle: planning, development, testing, implementation and maintenance. Assignments will include weekly homework and bi-weekly fundamental checkpoint quizzes, top-down approach programming projects within a capstone object-oriented data focused project. Learners will study how to build professional, user-friendly computer programs applicable to realworld applications in an IT-modeled environment. Students who complete 95-888 should not go on to take 90-812 Python Programming I or 90-819 Python Programming II. If you have already completed 90-812 or 90-819, you should not register for this course.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Use the Python Spyder, PyCharm, and/or IDLE integrated development environment in interactive and script mode to both test code snippets and author professional programs.
2. Learn Windows text command line usage for writing and executing Python source code.
3. Develop problem-solving skills through practice and understanding of the top-down approach.
4. Form and manipulate collections of data: list, tuple, set, dict, NumPy ndarray, and Pandas Series and DataFrame
5. Produce modules of function definitions for code reuse.
6. Create object-based algorithms to solve real-world problems using the Python language.
7. Be exposed to the SDLC (software development lifecycle) to understand how software applications are authored in industry.

## Prerequisites

At least one semester long course in computer programming (in a language such as Python, C, C++, Java, or C#) or equivalent hands-on programming experience.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/504108
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/456997
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/460070

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-888
**Title:** Data Focused Python
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** This seven, Pupils will also learn the basics of the software development lifecycle, realworld applications in an IT, Python Programming I or, real, Students will develop their problem, Learners will study how to build professional, Students who complete, If you have already completed, Assignments will include weekly homework and bi
