# 95-813: Intermediate Database Management

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

This accelerated 6-unit course will address the theory and application of relational database technology. The course covers advanced data modeling (including entity relationships modeling and database normalization) as well as the structured query language (selected topics). Data integrity as well as utilizing metadata will also be addressed. In addition, the course will cover tools, technologies and methods to aid in working with heterogeneous and external data sets. To provide students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures, readings and various assignments.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Understand and implement advanced data modeling techniques to enforce data integrity within the model while designing the model around specific business processes and constraints.
2. Learn advanced query methods and tools to allow for complex query results that are required for analyzing enterprise data sets.
3. Understand methods and tools available for working with datasets from diverse sources and formats both internal and external to the organization’s data.
4. Use current Oracle Database System to implement all of the above concepts including data structures, extending the model with additional available related data, querying, and analyzing the data within those sources.

## Prerequisites

A partial exemption from 95-703 based on the exemption exam is required to enroll in this course.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/473823

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-813
**Title:** Intermediate Database Management
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** To provide students with an opportunity to apply the knowledge they learn from the lectures, In addition, relationships modeling and database normalization, relational database technology, This accelerated, readings and various assignments, Data integrity as well as utilizing metadata will also be addressed, aid in working with heterogeneous and external data sets, The course covers advanced data modeling
