# 95-881: Web Application Development

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Heinz web courses are a mix of business, technology and analytics. The focus of this web course will be on the development of content-based web products with a focus on front-end programming. Programming in HTML and JavaScript will combine traditional software development combined with cutting-edge Generative AI tools. AI-assisted development platforms will be overviewed to help generate code, debug errors, and experiment with advanced techniques. Web applications should leverage analytics-based insights to adapt to their users. Approaches that we will cover includes the instrumentation of a web page to capture user behavior. We will analyze data indicators as an approach to characterize users. This will allow our development to be driven by the ability to personalize the web application experience. At the same time, the course will detail how the web application is used as input to search and advertising engines which use analytics to drive users, and what to do to optimize results. To accomplish all this, AI will be used to streamline your coding process, inspire creativity, and accelerate problem-solving.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Understand the development of a client-side browser based web application including its capabilities and limitations.
2. Develop skills in client-side web application development technologies.
3. Design a web application using web programming patterns based on data analytics to enhance the front end user experience.
4. Apply features to create a functioning web application.

## Prerequisites

This course assumes no significant programming exposure, and is more highly structured to support the students that may or may not have a significant programming background. The course, Enterprise Web Development, does assume some previous programming experience, and is less structured, for example it supports more flexibility in the choice of course project. The course content will be different, meaning 95-881/95-481 is not a subset of 95-482/95-882.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/492963
* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/504403

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-881
**Title:** Web Application Development
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** analytics, AI will be used to streamline your coding process, Web applications should leverage analytics, Approaches that we will cover includes the instrumentation of a web page to capture user behavior, At the same time, To accomplish all this, Programming in HTML and JavaScript will combine traditional software development combined with cutting, Heinz web courses are a mix of business, We will analyze data indicators as an approach to characterize users, This will allow our development to be driven by the ability to personalize the web application experience
