# 95-835: Time Series Forecasting in Python

## Course Information

**Units:** 6

## Description

Introduction Time Series Forecasting is something of a dark horse in the field of data science. It is one of the most applied data science techniques in business - used extensively in finance, in supply chain management, and in production and inventory planning. Moreover, it has a well established theoretical grounding in statistics and dynamic systems theory. Yet, it retains something of an outsider status in data science compared to more recent and popular machine learning methods such as image recognition and natural language processing. Consequently, Time Series Forecasting gets little or no treatment at all in introductory data science and machine learning courses. This course is intended to provide a comprehensive introduction to forecasting methods without deep diving into the theoretical details behind each method. Although, the references at the end of each week will fill in many of those details. The course is intended for the following three audiences. Graduate or PhD students studying in STEM or business fields. People doing forecasting in business who may not have had any formal training in the area. MBA students doing a data elective. Also relevant for those studying public policy, healthcare management, and related disciplines.

## Learning Outcomes

1. Forecaster’s Toolbox - Build and apply time series forecasting models in a variety of business contexts using tools that are useful for many different forecasting situations such as the following.

## Prerequisites

Prerequisites It is assumed that course participants are familiar with Introductory statistics. High-school algebra. Graphical methods for describing quantitative data - line plots, histograms, barplots, box plots, correlation plots. Numerical measures of Central Tendency. Numerical measures of Variability. Using the Mean and Standard Deviation to describe data. Joining data - inner, outer, right, and left join. Hypothesis testing. Simple linear and multiple regression - model assumptions, fitting the model, assessing utility of model. Splitting data into test-train splits and cross validation. Model performance evaluation metrics - RMSE, MAE, MAPE. Basic Python knowledge required - ability to read data and ability to perform basic manipulations using pandas and numpy libraries. If you don’t have prior experience with the aforementioned, you can still enroll if you have the willingness to learn. Bring your enthusiasm and curiosity.

## Syllabus Links

* https://api-01.heinz.cmu.edu/syllabus/vwsyllabus/423616

## Metadata

**Course Number:** 95-835
**Title:** Time Series Forecasting in Python
**Units:** 6
**Key Terms:** This course is intended to provide a comprehensive introduction to forecasting methods without deep diving into the theoretical details behind each method, MBA students doing a data elective, The course is intended for the following three audiences, Consequently, data science and machine learning courses, related disciplines, It is one of the most applied data science techniques in business, data science, Although, People doing forecasting in business who may not have had any formal training in the area
